This file was downloaded from HathiTrust Digital Library.
Find more books at https://www.hathitrust.org.

Title:	   Proceedings.

Publisher: [Annapolis, etc.] : The Institute, 1879-

Copyright:
Public Domain in the United States, Google-digitized
http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us-google

We have determined this work to be in the public domain in the United
States of America. It may not be in the public domain in other countries.
Copies are provided as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
United States, persons receiving copies should make appropriate efforts to
determine the copyright status of the work in their country and use the
work accordingly. It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
the estate of the authors of individual portions of the work, such as
illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights over these portions.
Depending on the nature of subsequent use that is made, additional rights
may need to be obtained independently of anything we can address. The
digital images and OCR of this work were produced by Google, Inc.
(indicated by a watermark on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests
that the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed or used
commercially. The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
non-commercial purposes.
Find this book online: https://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015077095761

This file has been created from the computer-extracted text of scanned page
images. Computer-extracted text may have errors, such as misspellings,
unusual characters, odd spacing and line breaks.

Original from: University of Michigan
Digitized by:  Google

Generated at Florida State University on 2021-01-18 21:00 GMT


#blankp. 1093 (#1)                       #


B
397197 DUPL


  p. 1094 (#2)                       #


Pww
37
U.
THINK
ARTES
10
Leo SCIENTIA
LIBRARY VERITAST OF THE
NIVERSITY OF MICHI
DE MICHIGAN
TOEBOR
DRITARDBORDEN
STRIS PENINSELA
IRCUMSPIG
SLEVISTELIUM
200
NE
COLLEGE
OF
ENGINEERING
MUITINHUSEN


  p. 1095 (#3)                       #


Engineering
Library
067


  p. 1096 (#4)                       #




  p. 1097 (#5)                       #



  p. 1098 (#6)                       #



  p. 1099 (#7)                       #

United States
Naval Institute
Proceedings
July, 1925 - Dec.
Edited by H. A. Baldridge

ovou
LIN
VAL
TIT
U.S.N
TUT
1873
U. S. Naval Institute
Publication Office: Menasha, Wisconsin
Editorial and Business Office: Annapolis, Maryland


  p. 1100 (#8)                       #

COPYRIGHT, 1925
BY
U.S. NAVAL INSTITUTE
The Collegtate Press
GEORGE BANTA PUBLISHING CO.
MENASHA, WIS.


  p. 1101 (#9)                       #

Library
Engineoring
1925
JUL 9
United States
Naval Institute
Proceedings

VOL. 51
JULY, 1925
NO. 269


INST
AL
KAVA
NAVAL
ACADEMY
U.S. N
TUTE
IDENS
SCIENTIA
873
CONTENTS
A Balanced Fleet for the United States Navy.-Taussig . . 1107
Sanity in Aviation.-Wood . . .
• . . . . . . 1133
What Might Have Happened at Jutland.-Hart . . . . 1143
Armament by Example and Arbitration.—Brandt . . . . 1152
“Lest We Forget.”—Underwood . . . . . . . . 1166
The Gas Mask and the Next War.-Walton . . . . .
1172
Matthew Fontaine Maury.—Coxe . . . . . . . . 1193
Maury's Genius Shown in Old Letter.—Brandt . . . .
Some Notes on Destroyer Handling Alongside.—Thurber . 1202
Diesel Engines for Capital Ships—A Military Necessity.—Proctor 1217
Some Physical Aspects of Flying.-Davis . . . . . . 1225
Discussion . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1231
Professional Notes . . . . . . . . . . . 1249
Notes on International Affairs . . . . . . . . 1312
Secretary's Notes . . . . . . . . . . 1317
1197


  p. 1102 (#10)                       

It Was The Idea Of Progress That
Brought The Naval Institute
Into Being
Columbus was a dreamer-but behind his dreams there was a
definite practical purpose. The wealth of Cathay, the spices and
perfumes of the East Indies were at the feet of the man to dis-
cover a new route to those lands. Intense study and a logical
process of reasoning had convinced Columbus that this planet upon
which we live is round. His was a mind years in advance of his
times. It was difficult to convince men of the soundness of his
project and the means for the accomplishment of his dream were
impossible to obtain for a long period. But, it was his idea which
gave this man the unbounded courage and untiring perseverance
to accomplish a quest even greater than that which he had
anticipated.
It was this idea of seeing beyond the times that led to the
organization of the Naval Institute. In the Navy, perhaps, more
than in any other profession, men with vision and far-sightedness
are needed. It is only by study, exchange of ideas, and an ability
to impart our ideas to others that any progress is made. For this
reason the Naval Institute has, through the publication of its
PROCEEDINGS, always encouraged officers to think along naval lines
and helped them to present their ideas to the Navy in a suitable
form. Articles in the PROCEEDINGS have been forerunners of
many of the great improvements in our Navy. But Progress
demands that we never stand still. The Naval Institute dreams
of greater advancement in years to come.
To accomplish the maximum amount of good it is desired that
every officer in the Navy be a member of the Naval Institute and
a subscriber to the PROCEEDINGS. To advance with one's pro-
fession one must keep acquainted with every move in that pro-
fession. The Naval Institute offers to officers of the Navy the
simplest method of doing this. The annual membership dues are
$3.00 (including subscription to the PROCEEDINGS). A check
payable to the Secretary of the Naval Institute, Annapolis, Mary-
land, will bring immediate attention.
The above was written by Midshipman (now Ensign) Harry Wagner of
the class of 1925, U.S.N.A., who won first prize for the most acceptable
advertisement for the Naval Institute-to appear in the 1925 Lucky Bag.
The Lucky Bag staff, ineligible in the contest, determined the prize winner.


  p. 1103 (#11)                       

UNITED STATES
NAVAL INSTITUTE
P R O C E E D I N G s
VOL. No. 51, No. 7
JULY, 1925
WHOLE No. 269
Contents
1143
A BALANCED FLEET FOR THE UNITED STATES Navy. BY
CAPTAIN J. K. TAUSSIG, U. S. NAVY................. 1107
SANITY IN AVIATION. BY LIEUTENANT COMMANDER RALPH
Wood, U. S. Navy............
1133
What Might HAVE HAPPENED AT JUTLAND. BY CAPTAIN
Thos. C. Hart, U. S. Navy......... .........
ARMAMENT BY EXAMPLE AND ARBITRATION. BY LIEUTEN-
ANT COMMANDER E. S. R. BRANDT, U. S. Navy....... 1152
"LEST WE FORGET.” BY COMMODORE E. B. UNDERWOOD,
U. S. NAVY, RET....................................
1166
THE GAS MASK AND THE NEXT WAR. BY LIEUTENANT
COMMANDER DUNCAN C. WALTON (MC), U. S. Navy 1172
MATTHEW FONTAINE MAURY. BY COMMANDER LEWIS
Coxe, U. S. Navy.........
............. 1193
MAURY'S GENIUS SHOWN IN OLD LETTER. BY LIEUTENANT
COMMANDER G. E. BRANDT, U. S. Navy.............. 1197
SOME NOTES ON DESTROYER HANDLING ALONGSIDE. BY
LIEUTENANT H. R. THURBER, U. S. NavY............. 1 202
DIESEL ENGINES FOR CAPITAL SHIPs—A MILITARY NECES-
SITY, BY CAPTAIN A. M. PROCTOR, U. S. Navy....... 1217
SOME PHYSICAL ASPECTS OF FLYING. BY LIEUTENANT
COMMANDER R. G. DAVIS (MC), U. S. Navy........
DISCUSSION ...
1231
PROFESSIONAL NOTES ....
1249
NOTES ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS...
1312
SECRETARY's Notes..
1225
S......................
1317
The writers only are responsible for the contents of their respective articles
Editor, Captain H. A. Baldridge; Assistant Editor, Lieutenant Com-
mander R. S. Field.
Copyright, 1925, by U. S. Naval Institute.
Published monthly at 450 Ahnaip St., Menasha, Wis.
Executive, Editorial, and Business Offices, U. S. Naval Institute,
Annapolis, Md.
Entered as second-class matter at the post-office at Menasha, Wis.,
April 4, 1922, and at the post-office at Annapolis, Md., under Act of Aug. 24,
1912. Acceptance for mailing at the special rate of postage provided for
in section 1103, Act of Oct. 3, 1919, authorized Mar, 13, 1922.
Membership dues (including Proceedings), $3.00 a year.
Subscription Rates, $5.00 a year. (Foreign postage extra.) Single
copies, 50c.


  p. 1104 (#12)                       

OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTE
President
REAR ADMIRAL HENRY B. WILSON, U. S. Navy
Vice-President
REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD H. JACKSON, U. S. Navy
Secretary-Treasurer
CAPTAIN H. A. BALDRIDGE, U. S. Navy
Board of Control
REAR ADMIRAL HENRY B. WILSON, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD H. JACKSON, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
BRIGADIER GENERAL GEORGE RICHARDS, U. S. Marine CORPS
CAPTAIN W. T. CLUVERIUS, U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN W. G. DUBOSE, (CC), U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN P. B. DUNGAN, U. S. Navy
COMMANDER BYRON McCANDLESS, U. S. Navy
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER W. G, GREENMAN, U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN H. A. BALDRIDGE, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
UNGAN, UNDLESS, WMAN, U.
PAST PRESIDENTS
ADMIRAL DAVID D. PORTER, U. S. Navy, 1873
REAR ADMIRAL JOHN L. WORDEN, U. S. Navy, 1874
REAR ADMIRAL C. R. P. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1875-78
COMMODORE FOXHALL A. PARKER, U. S. Navy, 1878-79
REAR ADMIRAL JOHN RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1879-82
REAR ADMIRAL C. R. P. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1882-83
REAR ADMIRAL THORNTON A. JENKINS, U. S. Navy, 1883-85
REAR ADMIRAL EDWARD SIMPSON, U. S. Navy, 1885-87
REAR ADMIRAL STEPHEN B. LUCE, U. S. Navy, 1887-98
Rear ADMIRAL WM. T. SAMPSON, U. S. Navy, 1898-1902
REAR ADMIRAL H. C. TAYLOR, U. S. Navy, 1902-04
Rear ADMIRAL C. F. GOODRICH, U. S. Navy, 1904-09
REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD WAINWRIGHT, U. S. Navy, 1909-11
Rear ADMIRAL BRADLEY A, FISKE, U. S. Navy, 1911-23
Rear ADMIRAL WILLIAM L. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1923-24


  p. 1105 (#13)                       



  p. 1106 (#14)                       


Waar
Matthew FontainE MAURY


  p. 1107 (#15)                       

UNITED STATES
NAVAL INSTITUTE
PROCEEDINGS
Vol. No. 51, No. 7
JULY, 1925
WHOLE No. 269
A BALANCED FLEET FOR THE UNITED
STATES NAVY
By CAPTAIN J. K. TaussIG, U. S. Navy
Motto: A just man armed keepeth his house in order.
EDITOR's Note: The author wrote and submitted the following article
in December, 1924, before the publication of the report of the special board
appointed by an order of the Secretary of the Navy, to consider a policy
of the Navy Department "with reference to the up-keep of the Navy in
its various branches."
LOREWORD.—The Navy is a complex organization. It is
i composed of the fleet and the shore establishment, both of
which are inseparably involved with the heterogeneous mat-
ters of personnel, material and supplies, together with all of their
complications of organization, administration, maintenance and
command.
The shore establishment is for the fleet. Various political and
economical factors enter at times to becloud this fact. Neverthe-
less, in the main, the magnitude and complexities of the shore es-
tablishment are dependent on the size of the fleet together with the
numbers, character and disposition of the vessels that compose it.
The fleet, then, having the foundation on which the entire naval
organization is built, it is evident that the composition of this fleet
is a matter of the greatest importance to the Navy and to the
country.
The fleet in itself is an intricate organization, made up of many
diversified elements. But, in the popular sense, the fleet is only
the ships that compose it. It is in this popular sense that the sub-


  p. 1108 (#16)                       

1108
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ject of a balanced feet will be considered in this paper. What will
be examined into is for the purpose of determining the character
and the number of the combatant ships that should compose our
fleet in order that it will be most efficiently able to perform the
duties required of the Navy should there be another war.
Policy and the Navy.—The fleet being that part of the Navy
through which its power is exerted, it is essential, before taking
up its functions, to determine exactly what the Navy is for. It is
asserted and conceded that the Navy is the country's first line of
defense, but this expresses, only in a limited sense, the true reason
for the existence of the Navy. It has functions which are much
broader than that signified in the popular phrase, “First line of
defense.”
In 1922 the Secretary of the Navy directed the general board to
formulate a United States naval policy. The completed work,
which was approved by the Secretary, begins with a definition of
naval policy as follows:
Naval policy is the system of principles, and the general terms of their
application, governing the development, organization, maintenance, training
and operation of a navy. It is based on and designed to support national
policies and American interests. It comprehends the questions of number,
size, type and distribution of naval vessels and stations, the character and
number of the personnel, and the character of peace and war operations.
The second paragraph of the general board's report defines the
"fundamental naval policy of the United States” in the following
sentence:
The Navy of the United States should be maintained in sufficient strength
to support its policies and its commerce, and to guard its continental and
overseas possessions.
We thus see that the real reason for having a Navy is for the
purpose of supporting the policies of the government. The pro-
tection of American interests, the supporting of commerce, and the
guarding of our continental and overseas possessions are, broadly
speaking, the basis on which our more definite national policies are
formed. It is these definite national policies, having an inter-
national significance, which form the basis for our naval policy.
The fundamental naval policy of the United States requires the
maintenance of the Navy in sufficient strength to support the na-
tional policies. Therefore, in order to determine this strength,


  p. 1109 (#17)                       

1925]
1109
A Balanced Fleet for the Navy
we must ascertain whither the supporting of these policies may
lead us. For illustrative purposes we will consider only two of
them: the Monroe Doctrine, and the Open Door in China.
The Monroe Doctrine has been in operation for a century. It
is for the purpose of keeping the Americas for the Americans.
It denies to the Old World countries the right further to colonize
or to attain land on this continent. For any foreign nation or
nations to overthrow this policy it would be necessary for them to
bring their armed forces to, or near to, us. If this were the only
foreign policy which might in the future involve us in war, it
could reasonably be argued that the Navy of the United States
must be maintained only for defensive purposes.
On the other hand, an entirely different situation is presented in
considering the Open Door. This national policy is for the pur-
pose of maintaining the integrity of China and for insuring to all
countries equal rights and opportunities in their dealings there.
To many Americans the adherence to such a policy is extreme
foolishness. This feeling is due to a failure to understand the
significance of events which led up to its announcement by Mr.
John Hay. With accurate vision he saw what it means to the
United States to have an Open Door in China. There is a country
of 400,000,000 peoples, the markets of which are being opened to
the world. European powers were taking every means, honorable
and otherwise, to gain spheres of influence in China which would
not only give them political dominance but also commercial and
economic control over this vast empire. The Open Door policy
announced by Mr. Hay was asserted for the purpose of insuring
to the United States equal rights for carrying on trade there. As
the United States becomes more and more thickly populated, and
as manufacturing increases as a means of supporting our people,
we must go farther and farther afield to obtain markets for our
goods. China, as a field for commercial enterprise is of great im-
portance to this country, and this importance will continue to grow.
Suppose, then, foreign opposition to this policy should involve us
in war. Could we enforce our will in regard to the maintenance of
the Open Door by having a navy built only with the view to de-
fending our own shores and possessions ? Could we win such a
war by keeping our fleet at home? It does not take much per-
spicacity to realize that in order to support our policy against


  p. 1110 (#18)                       

ΙΠΠΟ
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
opposition in China we would have to exert power in the Far East.
The only way to exert such power, after diplomacy has failed, is
through our armed forces—first the Navy and then the Army. In
other words, in order to support such a national policy as the Open
Door, we do not want a navy primarily for defense, as in the case
of the Monroe Doctrine, but, if need be, we must have a navy for
offense also. And this condition must be accepted as a truism as
long as there are any national policies involving international
affairs that may lead to a war, the theater of operations of which
will not be near our home shores.
These two examples have been cited for the purpose of demon-
strating the fallibility of the general popular belief that the Navy
is only for our first line of defense. In the political sense this is
true in the meaning that the Navy is for the support or defense of
our policies. In the naval or military sense this idea holds true
only when the conflict in policy which may lead to a war is one in
which the war will be fought out near or on our own shores.
The Function of the Fleet.—The fleet being that part of the
Navy which embodies the kinetic power for waging war, its com-
position, insofar as ships are concerned, must depend upon the
kind of war we may be called upon to wage. It has been shown
that the Navy as a whole, while primarily for the defense of na-
tional policies, must be maintained so as to be able to carry on
either defensive warfare or offensive warfare in accordance with
the conflict in international policy that may bring on the war.
Defensive and offensive warfare in this broad sense refer to what
are generally known as campaigns, the significance being that the
Navy operates either on the broad strategic defensive or on the
broad strategic offensive. The distinction between strategic and
tactical action must be emphasized in order clearly to understand
the true function of the fleet.
Strategy, in general, deals with all operations prior to an en-
gagement. Tactics deals with the battle after the fleets are within
contact. Good strategy results in obtaining suitable initial positions
in sufficient strength, from which to begin the fight. Good tactics
results in taking advantage of the positions so as to win the fight.
History has shown, the game board shows, and wars in the
future will show, that whatever strategic attitude the Navy assumes
in any campaign, be it defensive or offensive, the tactical attitude,


  p. 1111 (#19)                       

19251
IIII
A Balanced Fleet for the Navy
'
when it comes to fighting, must be offensive if the battle is to be
won. A purely passive defensive has never yet won a battle. It
neglects the great advantage to be gained by initiative. It is similar
in its action to that of a prize fighter who protects himself only
by covering up. He may delay to some extent the ultimate defeat,
but he does not hurt his opponent. In order to injure the adver-
sary he must strike out, he must take offensive action as exempli-
fied in aggressive tactics. It is thus with fleets. If fleets are to
win battles they must strike and strike hard. It will not avail to
cover up in defensive attitude.
In the last analysis, then, the chief strategical function of the
fleet is to gain and maintain control of the sea. The chief tactical
function, whatever may be the strategic attitude of the navy as a
whole, is to win battles. In order to win battles, the fleet must
fight offensively. In order to fight offensively to the best advantage
it must be so constituted that the elements which compose it bear
the proper relationship to each other. It is this relationship that
forms the basis for determining what vessels should constitute the
balanced fleet.
Surface Ships Versus Submarines and Aircraft.-In order to
obtain and maintain a suitable balance between the vessels which
ccmpose the fleet, it is first necessary to establish the general
classes of vessels required. A majority of those who have made a
study of naval developments and naval warfare assert that surface
ships, as exemplified by the battleship type, are still the backbone
of the fleet. However, there is a growing school in support of the
contention that the capital ship has seen its day, and is to be re-
placed by aircraft and subsurface craft. Perhaps a brief historical
review of the developments of various naval weapons and their
effect on the fleet up to the present time may aid in forming judg-
ment as to whether there are sound reasons for supporting the
contentions of those who hold that the battleship is doomed..
For many years the gun with its carrier has been the chief naval
weapon. Periodically, there is brought to the fore a new instru-
ment either in the form of what may literally be termed a weapon,
or which taken in conjunction with its carrier is a weapon in the
figurative sense, the sponsors of which, in each case, shout the
shibboleth: “The battleship is doomed.” The chief of these
weapons are the ram, torpedo, bomb, torpedo boat, submarine, and


  p. 1112 (#20)                       

III2
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
now, aircraft. In each case, whatever may have been the naval
support, there was considerable popular and political backing,
owing to the ever-recurring endeavor to get a cheap substitute for
the expensive surface ships which were continuously increasing in
size, power and cost. Many of the most ardent advocates of these
various weapons were, and still are, those who, no matter what
the available evidence, always hope to get something for nothing.
In each of the aforementioned weapons it looked for a while as
if the success proclaimed for it would be met. Some of them did
undeniably meet with considerable initial success, due to the his-
torical fact that in warfare new implements of offensive have, in
the beginning, been one stride ahead of the means of defense.
When the new offensive weapon demonstrates an ability to inflict
damage, and not until then, are the antidotes developed.
The sponsors of the ram caused the building of a special ship,
the Katahdin, which had only this means of offense. Then came a
period when all of the chief naval powers required their marine
architects to design nearly all fighting ships with ram bows. There
were a number of visionaries who depicted a swarm of small
Katahdins sinking the fewer larger enemy ships by ramming. But
the threat of the ram was met in the increased speed of the larger
ships, and in improved gun fire. The ram soon passed into a state
of innocuous desuetude where it has since remained.
The bomb had sufficient advocates to force the building of the
special dynamite ship, the Vesuvius. The great destructive effect
that would be produced by the hurling of these immense explosive
projectiles through the air was visualized. But here again the
advance in gunnery denied to the bomb-carrying vessels the priv-
ilege of getting close enough to the larger ships to be dangerous.
So the bomb in naval warfare passed into oblivion, there to remain
until the recent developments in aircraft have again brought it to
the front.
The automobile torpedo, which, unlike projectiles hurled through
the air, has its medium in the water, was introduced. A realiza-
tion of its potential effectiveness was immediately appreciated, pro-
vided the handicap of its short range could be overcome. This
led to the development, first of the torpedo boat, and then of the
submarine, as conveyors for the torpedo. What has been the his-
tory of these vessels ?


  p. 1113 (#21)                       

1925)
: 1113
A Balanced Fleet for the Navy
Consider the torpedo boat. Originally these were small, com-
paratively (for those days) high-speed vessels, which, through
stress of numbers and by reason of their maneuverability, were
expected to attain positions that would enable them to overwhelm
the larger ships. This threat was effectively met in a number of
ways. The defensive and offensive qualities of the larger ships
were improved by giving them added speed, additional underwater
protection, and better secondary battery guns, both as to rapidity
of fire and ballistic qualities. Then, following the well known
axiom that like kills like, larger torpedo boats were built to prey
upon the smaller ones, and then again still larger ones, resulting
finally in the destroyer which has now entirely removed the tor-
pedo boat from the field. The destroyer has remained as the chief
carrier of torpedoes on the surface. However, it has remained not
as the successor of the battleship, but as an auxiliary to that vessel.
As to the submarine. Even prior to the Great War, while the
underwater craft were still much undeveloped, there were those
who held that the advent of the submarine proclaimed the doom of
the surface-fighting ship. However, except in the early stages of
the war, prior to defensive means having been developed, the sub-
marine did not do much effective work against surface-fighting
ships. It was the allied surface ships that prevented the German
surface ships from operating against commerce. This forced the
Germans to employ submarines as commerce destroyers, but these
submarines could not prevent the Allies from continuing to use
surface vessels in the theater of operations. It was these Allied
surface vessels which, in the main, eventually caused the failure of
the submarine campaign and the ultimate defeat of the Central
Powers. The offensive employment of numerous surface craft
fitted with depth charges, the arming of merchant ships, the de-
velopment of listening devices, the development of the convoy
system-all these together, made the employment of the submarine
against surface craft less and less effective. There will long con-
tinue to be heard the voice of those who proclaim that the sub-
marines almost won the war for Germany. Be that as it may, it
was simply due to the new offense being initially ahead of the
defense. That the German submarines did not win the war for the
Germans was due entirely to the Allied surface craft--the smaller
ones, in their kinetic power, and the larger ones in their potential


  p. 1114 (#22)                       

III4
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
power, thereby enabling the smaller ones to operate unmolested by
German ships.
The submarine is developing and will continue to do so. Like-
wise, the offensive means to be used against it will improve. This
type of vessel has not yet been employed tactically in a fleet action.
Up to the present it must still be regarded as a weapon of oppor-
tunity against capital ships. It has come to remain, like the de-
stroyer, as an adjunct of the fleet, but not to replace the surface
vessels. The submarine will not displace the capital ship as the
chief element of the fleet until such time as it develops speed,
power and maneuverability that will enable it to exert the power
embodied in the battleship. This time is not yet in sight.
With the advent of aircraft, the bomb, which had fallen by the
wayside owing to the lack of suitable conveyance to get it within
striking distance of its selected target, returned to give those who
are forever seeking the Nemesis of the battleship another oppor-
tunity for publicity. Again is heard the shibboleth, “The battle-
ship is doomed.”
The prediction of supremacy for aircraft in the future is based
on two assumptions. The first of these is that airplanes have
reached the stage of development which permit them to carry
bombs containing sufficient explosive power to destroy surface
craft. The second is that the offensive power of the planes appears
superior to the defensive developments against them.
Many base their conviction of the supremacy of aircraft on the
destructive effect of the bombs as exemplified in experiments
against undefended surface vessels. Bombs were dropped which
sank ships. The ships were relying only on their structural
strength to keep them afloat. They were making no offensive-
defense. Therefore, no sound conclusions can be reached in re-
gard to such experiments other than the already well known fact
that sufficient high explosives brought into contact with any body
will destroy that body, whatever may be the carrying medium. The
claim for the supremacy of aircraft over surface vessels is based
solely on a one-sided argument. There is a failure to appreciate
that under the same conditions for the attack, a single destroyer
or a single submarine could sink the ship in less time than was done
by a whole flight of aircraft, and with much less expense and
waste of ammunition.


  p. 1115 (#23)                       

1925]
1115
A Balanced Fleet for the Navy
For those who are banking on the present seemingly superior
offensive properties of aircraft in comparision with the defensive
means, the history of the torpedo boat and the submarine are over-
looked. As the damaging effect of the torpedo has been lessened
by improved under-water construction of the larger ships, just so
can we reasonably expect the damaging effect of bombs to be les-
sened by improved above-water, as well as under-water, construc-
tion. As the carrier of the torpedo has met with increased difficulty
in getting within striking distance of the larger ships owing to
increased efficiency of secondary battery guns, just so can we be
insured of increased difficulty for aircraft to get their bombs with-
in striking distance of their targets owing to increased efficiency
in anti-aircraft guns. As the menace of the surface and subsur-
face torpedo-carrying craft was met by the employment of similar
craft against them, just so can we rely on the menace from air-
planes to be met by the employment of airplanes against them.
Aside from the immediate destructive effect that may be em-
bodied in Aying vessels under conditions especially favorable to
them, there are many things which are fundamentally against
them. Some of these are the effect of weather, their employment
teing limited or even impracticable under many conditions when
surface craft can operate with success; their reliance on surface
ships as bases when operating at long distances from shore; the
effects of derangement of machinery, which, when they occur, im-
mediately put them out of action. In fact, successful aircraft
operations in force across the sea cannot be conducted without the
aid of surface vessels, while the surface ships are not dependent
on aircraft. There will continue to be wonderful advances in the
science of Aying; but until the time comes when in war we can
rely on aircraft to carry the men, the stores, the fuel and the guns
that were carried by surface craft of all descriptions in the last
war, it is unreasonable to expect Aying machines to make the sur-
face vessels obsolete. The aircraft have come to remain, both for
commercial purposes and for naval purposes. In the latter sense
they have come not to replace the surface ships, but, like the de-
stroyer and the submarine, to remain as useful and indispensable
auxiliaries to the surface vessels.
Thus our fleet to be efficient and prepared must be composed of
surface ships, submarines and aircraft. Owing to inherent ad-


  p. 1116 (#24)                       

1116
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
vantages of reliability, habitability, capacity for power and gen-
eral all-round capability the surface ships are, and will continue to
be, the main reliance for carrying on successful warfare. To in-
crease the effectiveness of their operations and in some cases, to
make their operations possible, the surface vessels must be aug-
mented by submarines and aircraft.
The Backbone of the Fleet.--It has been concluded that the sur-
face vessels form the general class of ships on which main reliance
must be placed for carrying on successful warfare. The next step
in ascertaining the composition of the balanced fleet is the deter-
mination of what type of surface ship should form the nucleus or
backbone around which the fleet is to be formed.
It has been shown that the ram, torpedo and bomb, together
with their carriers as exemplified in the torpedo boats, submarines
and aircraft, are secondary to the gun which is carried by all types
of vessels—surface, subsurface and above-surface. The gun is
still the greatest of the offensive weapons. As our tactics in a
fleet engagement are to be offensive, the vessels around which the
fleet is to be formed must be those ships which can carry the most
powerful guns. These vessels are what today are known as capital
ships. Even should they not actually take part in a fleet action in
the next war, we must judge from historical precedent that they
will be the ultimate and determining factor in obtaining and main-
taining control of the sea. Even had there been no Battle of Jut-
land, which admittedly was indecisive, the British and American
battleships at Scapa Flow and other North Sea bases, together
with the presence of a division of American battleships at Bere-
haven in Ireland, were the deciding factor in maintaing the control
of the sea for the Allies, and it was this control of the sea that de-
termined the outcome of the Great War.
To win a war power must be exerted. The gun is the most
powerful weapon of the day, and, insofar as can be seen, of the
future. The bigger the gun the more power it embodies. Only
the capital ships can carry the most powerful guns. Therefore,
this class of vessel exemplifies the essence of naval strength and
must be considered the backbone of the fleet.
The Effect of the Limitation of Armament Treaty.—Prior to
the promulgation of the Treaty for the Limitation of Naval Arma-
ments, it was practicable to determine the numbers and classes


  p. 1117 (#25)                       

1925)
1117
A Balanced Fleet for the Navy
of vessels necessary for a balanced fleet without international re-
striction. This is no longer possible. The balanced fleet for the
United States Navy no longer depends only on what naval officers
would like to have it or what tactically or strategically might seem
the best to meet the world situation from our own point of view.
It depends greatly on the restrictions injected by the treaty. This
was recognized by the general board in formulating the naval
policy which is our guide. The following significant extract taken
from the approved naval policy is quoted, owing to its importance
in determining the composition of our fleet:
U. S. Naval Policy Based on Treaty for Limitation of Naval Armament.
Preface: The Treaty for the Limitation of Naval Armament, when
promulgated, will be the supreme law of the powers party to the treaty
governing their naval armaments as to capital ships and aircraft carriers.
The spirit of the treaty indicates two elements of international import :
A general desire to avoid competition in naval armament. A partial recog-
nition of a ratio in naval strengths as a means of avoiding competition.
Were any power now to undertake a program of expansion in unrestricted
classes of naval vessels or in personnel not consistent with the treaty ratios
of capital ships, a new competition in naval strengths would thereby be
initiated.
Until such time as other powers by inequitable conduct in international
relations as to U. S. interests or by their departure from the idea of a sus-
pended competition in naval armaments, indicate other procedure, the navy
of the United States may be governed in naval strengths by the spirit of
the capital ship ratios, otherwise it will be necessary appropriately to
readjust our naval policy.
To quote further from the same source, the first sentence under
the heading of General Naval Policy is :
To create, maintain and operate a navy second to none; and in con-
formity with the ratios for capital ships established by the Treaty for the
Limitation of Naval Armaments.
The Treaty for the Limitation of Naval Armaments defines
capital ships as follows:
A capital ship, in the case of ships hereafter built, is defined as a vessel
of war, not an aircraft carrier, whose displacement exceeds 10,000 tons
standard displacement, or which carries a gun with a caliber exceeding eight
inches.
Under this definition there can be only two classes of capital
ships. These are the battleship and the battle cruiser. A modern
fleet which is not provided with battle cruisers operates under a
,


  p. 1118 (#26)                       

1118
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
decided handicap. Not only are such vessels of great value tac-
tically, but they may be of inestimable value in strategic campaigns
where offensive operations in the form of attacks on the enemy
scouting forces or raids against enemy bases may have an impor-
tant bearing on deciding the success or failure of the campaign.
As an example of the value of battle cruisers for certain important
classes of operations that might occur in any war, the destruction
of Von Spee's squadron off the Falklands is cited. Battle cruisers
were the only type of vessel that could put a stop to such opera-
tions as the German squadron was carrying on. If Great Britain
had not possessed ships of this type, Von Spee would have con-
tinued to be an irritating thorn in the flanks of the Allies for an
indefinite period.
Battle cruisers may also be a factor in the ability of aircraft
carriers to operate under various conditions. The carriers them-
selves must be comparatively lightly armed. They might be
accompanied by cruisers which also are comparatively lightly
armed. The only sufficiently heavily armed vessel with adequate
speed that can be employed for accompanying and safeguarding
aircraft carriers are the battle cruisers. The United States Navy
possesses no vessels of this type. By the provisions of the treaty
we gave up such as were under construction, and accepted the
prohibition of not having any until such time as the replacement
program can begin. It is then that the decision will have to be
made as to whether the conditions warrant the new construction
to be battleships or battle cruisers, or both.
As our eighteen battleships now constitute the full treaty
strength of our capital ship allowance, it is these vessels which
form the nucleus or backbone of the fleet around which we must
assemble the auxiliary combatant vessels. This being a fact, it
needs no argument to support the assertion that the first essential
for our balanced fleet is to keep these eighteen battleships in the
finest material condition. Where improvements in offensive power
can be obtained by increasing the range of their guns, such altera-
tions should be made. The only legitimate restrictions that can
be placed on making such desirable changes as will produce this
effect are that the caliber of the guns be not increased, and that the
general type of mounting be not changed. Where improvements
in defensive strength can be obtained by equipping the ships with


  p. 1119 (#27)                       

1925]
1119
A Balanced Fleet for the Navy
additional under-water and above-water protection against tor-
pedoes and bombs, such should be immediately effected. Where
improvements can be made in steaming qualities by a change from
coal to oil fuel, they should be commenced at once.?
The Limitation of Armament Treaty, while specifying the ratio
of capital ship tonnage between Great Britain, the United States,
and Japan as 5-5-3, contemplated in spirit that this ratio should
represent the actual fighting strength in this class of vessels. Fight-
ing strength is composed of two main factors: i.e., the ability to
inflict damage and the ability to withstand damage. There is no
question but that our capital ships in toto are inferior to those of
Great Britain in fighting strength and that they are not superior to
those of Japan in the ratio of five to three. Therefore, every en- '
deavor should be made to bring about the prescribed ratio of 5-5-3
in fighting strength. There can be no legitimate grounds for claim-
ing a violation of the spirit or the letter of the treaty in so doing.
Cruisers.-On the basis of the battleships being the nucleus
around which the feet will be formed, we can now proceed with
the other fleet elements as represented by the auxiliary surface
fighting vessels, submarines and aircraft.
The Treaty for Limitation of Armaments having fixed the ratios
only for capital ships and aircraft carriers, the importance of the
auxiliary fighting craft becomes greatly enhanced. This was rec-
ognized by Great Britain as evidenced by the unwillingness of her -
statesmen to limit the tonnage in cruisers, of which ships that
nation had considerable preponderance. This has been further evi-
denced by the program for additional construction of this class of
vessel since the terms of the treaty became effective.
As our naval policy requires that the United States "create,
maintain, and operate a navy second to none,” it is necessary, in
view of the fixed ratio in capital ships, that the auxiliary fighting
ships be equal in strength to those of any other nation. Great
Britain, of all the powers, possesses the greatest cruiser strength,
and is taking steps to augment this strength. Japan is more power-
'Since the writing of this paper Congress authorized the conversion to
oil fuel for the six coal-burning battleships. Authorization has also been
given for improving their defensive protection against bombs and torpedoes.
Authority has not been obtained to increase the gun elevation of any of
the battleships.


  p. 1120 (#28)                       

II20
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ful in cruisers than is the United States. That country is also in-
creasing her cruiser strength. The United States alone, of all the
naval powers, is neglecting this type of ship. Our ten modern
light cruisers, representing a total displacement of 75,000 tons,
make a pitiable showing alongside the thirty-seven British light
cruisers of 169,000 tons. We have no vessels of this type under
construction, while Great Britain has eight of 75,000 tons on the
ways, supplemented by two of 10,000 tons each, which have been
authorized by Australia. In addition Great Britain has announced
a policy embodying the construction of fifty additional light
cruisers of 10,000 tons each, five to be laid down each year for the
next ten years.
An examination of the Japanese light cruiser situation shows
that nation now possessing fifteen modern vessels of this type, of
77,000 tons total displacement. Under construction she has eight
ships with a displacement of 60,000 tons. In addition, two ships
of 10,000 tons each have been authorized. There are indications
that Japan has adopted a building program that will further in-
crease her cruiser strength.
It is seen from the foregoing that while the United States is
being "governed in naval strengths by the spirit of the capital ship
ratios," as stated in our approved naval policy, other nations are
not so considerate in respect to light cruisers. Therefore, it be-
comes "necessary appropriately to readjust our naval policy” in
this respect, if our fleet is to be equal to that of Great Britain and
superior to that of Japan in the ratio of 5 to 3.
Great Britain argues, and rightly so, that a large cruiser force
is essential to her national interests, owing to her world-wide em-
pire, her extensive and valuable trade in all parts of the world,
and for the protection of the trade routes and of her citizens
wherever they may be. These certainly are valid reasons for the
maintaining of a large number of cruisers. But have we not the
same valid reasons for having an equally large number of cruisers ?
While our trade values may not be quite as large as those of the
British Empire, they are just as wide flung, requiring the same
amount of protection along the routes. While our outlying pos-
sessions are not as widely scattered as those of Great Britain, we
have colonial interests at great distances from our home lands.
Great Britain has fortified naval bases in nearly all parts of the


  p. 1121 (#29)                       

1925)
1121
A Balanced Fleet for the Navy
world, while we have no such thing outside of the continental
limits of the United States excepting in the Canal Zone and the
Hawaiian Islands, thereby needing additional ships for the pro-
tection of bases. So, from the point of view of world-wide in-
terests, the United States needs a large number of light cruisers!
to the same extent as does Great Britain.
But the light cruiser question is one of sufficient importance to
go even further into the matter than trade values and the protec-
tion of commerce, colonies and citizens. We must look into the
value and importance of this class of vessel in a strategic campaign,
and in a naval engagement should there be another war.
The theater of operations in any war will depend on the conflict
of policy that causes the war. It is possible that the United States
may be forced into a war in which an extensive overseas campaign
is involved. In such an event naval power as embodied in the fleet
with its train must cross the ocean. The fleet must be prepared to
fight at all times. There must be scouting, and protective and de-
fensive screening. There should be vessels available for offensive
screening. Troopship and storeship convoys must be escorted. In
many respects the light cruisers are the most efficient type for
these operations. They would have to be augmented by destroyers,
submarines and aircraft, but the successful operations of all these
types will largely depend on the number of light cruisers available
to support them. While in theory there may be a definite balanced
ratio between capital ships and cruisers, in practice a fleet cannot
have too many light cruisers. The lack of sufficient vessels of this
type has been felt by the naval commanders in nearly every war.
We can repeatedly hear the echo of the frequent cry of Nelson :
"Were I to die at this moment, want of frigates would be stamped
upon my heart”; “No words of mine can express what I am suf-
fering for want of frigates”; “The last fleet was lost to me for
want of frigates”; etc., etc. It is a certainty that the commander-
in-chief of the United States fleet engaged in an overseas cam-
paign, and having only our present meager supply of light cruisers,
would suffer even more from this want than did Nelson.
Let us consider the rôle of light cruisers in a fleet engagement.
First comes the tactical scouting. The class of vessel best suited
for this work is one in which great speed is essential. Such ships
must have more gun power than do destroyers and destroyer leaders


  p. 1122 (#30)                       

1122
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
which may be met at any time. They must be well equipped for
getting the information obtained to the coinmander-in-chief, their
immediate commander, and to certain vessels of the fleet. The light
cruiser is the only type of vessel with all these characteristics to
an efficient degree. When the battle line is formed these ships will
· take station for supporting the destroyers in attacks against capital
ships, and in preventing destroyers from gaining positions from
which to launch their torpedoes against our battle line. The great
advantage over our fleet accruing to any nation having a superior
cruiser force is apparent. In fact, the superiority which many
think would go with our fleet owing to our large number of de-
stroyers, is pure imagination. The effectiveness of a great part of
these destroyers would be nullified in an action with a fleet having
a supremacy of cruisers, as their attempts to obtain suitable attack
positions would be frustrated. If our destroyers are to be effective
we must have supporting ships for them in the shape of light
cruisers, and they should be equal in number to those of any pos-
sible adversary.
To summarize: The cruiser type of vessel, owing to speed,
steaming radius, secondary gun power, and ability for gaining in-
formation, has an immense field of operation. Independently, they
are the best commerce destroyers. Operating with the fleet in a
strategic campaign they are the most suitable vessels for distant
scouting, and for screening, both protectively and offensively.
When feets are in contact, with a battle imminent, they are the
best fitted type for tactical scouting. During an engagement they
are essential for supporting destroyer attacks and for denying
suitable attack positions to the enemy destroyers. They are ideal
escort vessels. The cruisers are, in fact, the most important
auxiliary to the capital ships. They are the fleet element which the
United States has most neglected.
The approaching superiority of our Navy in capital ship
strength was the main factor that made possible the limitation in
battleship and battle cruiser strength. Our inferiority in cruisers
prevented the acceptance of the proposal to limit this class of ves-
sel. If there is really a desire on our part to limit the cruiser
strength of the great powers, the only way we can hope to bring
it about is to adopt a cruiser building program which will balance
our feet and eventually make us superior to all other nations in
this respect.


  p. 1123 (#31)                       

1925]
1123
A Balanced Fleet for the Navy
So it behooves this country immediately to initiate a cruiser
building program. This is necessary not only to balance our feet
strategically and tactically, but also to balance it with respect to
the 5-5-3 strength ratio with Great Britain and Japan which our
naval policy asserts as essential. Not less than fifty new light
cruisers are required. They should be vessels of 10,000 tons dis-
placement which is the largest permitted by the treaty. They
should have the highest practicable speed and carry as heavy a bat-
tery of eight-inch guns as possible on this displacement. Owing to
the present superiority of the British and Japanese fleets in respect
to cruisers, and owing to the announced British policy to build
fifty new cruisers, laying them down at the rate of five per year,
this country should immediately start a building program of fifty
light cruisers which should be laid down at the rate of ten per year.
In no other way can a balance in cruiser strength be obtained.?
Destroyers and Destroyer Leaders.-Although there has been a
gerferal lack of appreciation in this country of the value of the
light cruisers, no such condition has existed with respect to the
importance of destroyers. We have 267 modern first line vessels
of this class. Like the cruiser we cannot in practice have too many
destroyers. In a great war adequate employment would be found
for all in service, and there would still be need for more. In our
Navy there has been an attempt to make this class of small vessel
take the place of light cruisers. There is no question as to their
unsuitability for this. The destroyer is essentially a torpedo carry-
ing vessel, and its main rôle is for offense against the larger ships
and against submarines. In a strategic campaign they are inval-
uable for protective and defensive screening; but even here they
would be employed on the offensive-defensive in denying to sub-
narines the opportunity to get within striking distance of the fleet,
train, convoy, or whatever vessels they might at the time be escort-
ing or screening. If large numbers of destroyers are well or-
ganized, well directed, and adequately supported in a fleet action,
they will bear an important part in the outcome of the battle.
We now have sufficient destroyers to balance our fleet both stra-
tegically and tactically, and to more than balance it with respect
to the navies of Great Britain and Japan on the 5-5-3 basis. But,
? The last Congress authorized the construction of eight cruisers, but
provided funds only for the construction of two of them. This is but
slight appreciation of our need for vessels of this class.


  p. 1124 (#32)                       

1124
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
we have not the facilities or means either for properly directing
them nor for adequately supporting them. It has been pointed out
that our lack of light cruisers in the face of an enemy having a
superiority in that class of vessel, greatly nullifies the otherwise
advantage that should accrue to a greater number of destroyers.
When consideration is given to the means for directing this class
of vessel, the unsatisfactory condition of our Navy immediately
becomes apparent. We concede that for each three or four battle-
ships and for each four to eight cruisers there must be a flag officer
and adequate staff for whom suitable quarters and facilities are
available on one of the vessels. On the other hand, for a long time
we attempted to direct large units of destroyers by placing them
under the senior commanding officer who not only had to handle
his own ship, but also, perhaps, to command a squadron of eighteen
destroyers without the aid of any staff whatever. We have lately
come to recognize that destroyers cannot be efficiently directed
in this way. In consequence, there has been added to each squad-
ron an additional destroyer which carries the commander of the
squadron and a small staff. This was a move conducive to better
direction of the destroyers, but even this is not sufficient for really
efficient command in action. In the first place a destroyer having
on board its war complement is over-crowded. There are not
available adequate living quarters for a squadron commander and
his staff. Secondly, a destroyer has neither the space nor the
facilities required by a squadron commander for properly direct-
ing a large number of units. There is only one remedy for this
state of affairs. That is to build a special class of vessel known as
destroyer leaders. Great Britain and Italy have long recognized
their importance. The former now possesses fifteen and is build-
ing two more. The latter possesses six and is constructing two
additional. France has recently come to recognize their value and
is now constructing six destroyer leaders to supplement the single
one now possessed. Japan has no vessels classed as such, but it is
important to note that she has under construction nine destroyers
each of which is of a greater displacement than any of our de-
stroyers. In addition, fifteen 1,400-ton destroyers have been
authorized. 3
* Recent reports from Japan indicate that that country is contemplating
the building of a number of 3,000-ton destroyer leaders armed with guns of
5.5-inch caliber.


  p. 1125 (#33)                       

19251
1125
A Balanced Fleet for the Navy
Our fleet will never be balanced until we construct a suitable
number of destroyer leaders. Great Britain has one leader for
each twelve destroyers. With our organization of fifteen squad-
rons, each composed of eighteen destroyers, there should be fif-
teen leaders, one for each squadron. These destroyer leaders
being for the purpose of leading and directing destroyers in action
niust be primarily torpedo carrying craft. An efficient battery of
guns is essential; but torpedoes must not be sacrificed for the gun.
Destroyer leaders in performing their function in battle must of
necessity encounter light cruisers. It is not expected or intended
that they can defeat light cruisers. But, under the conditions of
encounter, the cruisers will probably be engaged with a large num-
ber of destroyers the guns of which are not of sufficient caliber to
materially damage the cruiser. The destroyer leaders, therefore,
should carry a gun, the projectiles of which on hitting a cruiser
will inflict sufficient damage to make them worth while. As the
6-inch gun is the smallest one which possesses this qualification
our destroyer leaders should be designed to carry guns of this
caliber.
Our fifteen destroyer leaders, then, should be vessels of between
2,500 and 3,000 tons displacement. They must have not less than
twenty-five knots speed and a long steaming radius. They should
carry a battery of four triple torpedo tubes, at least two of which
should be on the midship line; three 6-inch 50-caliber guns all on
the midship line; anti-aircraft gun, and offensive means against
submarines. Above all, they must possess the capacity and facili-
ties that permit of a commander and adequate staff for properly
directing a squadron of eighteen destroyers.
We now have sufficient destroyers to balance our feet in this
respect from both the strategical and tactical standpoint. We are
ahead of the 5-5-3 ratio in destroyer strength. Many, however,
are deteriorating, owing to lack of personnel to care for them. All
of our first line destroyers are of the same vintage. In conse-
quence all will become obsolete at the same time. Therefore, our
chief concern with the destroyers is in keeping fit the large number
which are out of commission, in preparing a suitable replacement
plan, and in providing for them a number of leaders so as to insure
their being efficiently directed.


  p. 1126 (#34)                       

1126
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Submarines. The conferences which preceded the final drafts
of the Treaty Limiting Naval Armaments and of the Treaty Re-
lating to the Use of Submarines and Noxious Gases in Warfare,
clearly indicated that the representatives of the foreign nations
concerned did not adopt the purely idealistic attitude of our own
statesmen, but were, to a great extent, influenced by the advan-
tages or disadvantages which would accrue to their own country
by the adoption of each of the proposals. As an example of this
we see the British representatives pleading for the outlawry of
the submarine in any form, and the French representatives main-
taining the necessity of continuing this type of vessel as a weapon
of warfare. The outcome was the second five power treaty, the
terms of which outlaw the submarine as a commerce destroyer.
This treaty does not become effective until ratified by all the sig-
natory powers, and as France has not ratified it, its provisions are
not in effect as international law.
Whether or not the submarine treaty is finally ratified, it affects
only the use of subsurface vessels as commerce destroyers and has
no bearing whatever on their use in warfare against combatant
ships. Submarines have not been employed as yet in a fleet' en-
gagement. However, with their rapid development in size, power,
maneuverability, and means of communicating, there is the prob-
ability that they will hold an important place in the battle lines of
the future.
In a strategic campaign the field of operations of submarines is
large. With the advent of aircraft as parts of fleets the submarine
gains value as a scouting and screening vessel. It is the ideal type
of ship for reconnaissance. Any fleet engaged in an overseas cam-
paign needs submarines of sufficient speed and adequate habit-
ability as auxiliaries for screening. Not only is the submarine a
good vessel for protective screening: i.e., to give warning of the
approach of an enemy, but conditions can be visualized where they
might be of great value in offensive operations against the enemy's
information service. In order to balance our fleet for such opera-
tions that might be required in another war submarines are an
essential. In future international conferences held for the purpose
of further limiting naval armaments, should an attempt be made
to outlaw the submarine as a combatant ship, it is hoped that our
idealistic tendencies will not govern to the extent of agreeing to


  p. 1127 (#35)                       

1925)
I 127
A Balanced Fleet for the Navy
such a step. The abolishment of the submarine would have a de-
cidedly weakening effect in the ability of our fleet to carry out a
prolonged campaign.
Great Britain is the only navy which has what are known as
monitor submarines. These are few in number and have only very
limited capabilities. It is doubtful if additional vessels of this type
will be constructed as hereafter they must be included in the capital
ship tonnage owing to their carrying a gun of a caliber greater
than eight inches. Both Japan and the United States exceed Great
Britain in effective first line submarines, their numbers being :
Japan, thirty-three; United States, forty-four; Great Britain,
twenty-six. But of the larger type, classified as feet submarines,
Great Britain possesses eight, to five for Japan and three for the
United States.
Under construction Great Britain has only two first-line sub-
marines and one fleet submarine; Japan has three first-line, four
second-line, and twenty-two fleet submarines; the United States
has six first-line, and three fleet submarines with an additional
six of this latter class authorized, but construction held in abey-
ance. Thus, when the present authorized building programs are
completed, Japan and the United States will be about on a parity
in the total of modern first-line submarines, while Great Britain
will be considerably weaker.
With our battleships not maintained in condition to insure a
fighting strength superior to that of Japan in the ratio of five to
three; with Japan having a cruiser force of greater strength than
ours; with the advantage of our large number of destroyers greatly
nullified by reason of our weakness in cruisers, and not having any
destroyer leaders; it is essential if we are to maintain a fleet ratio
of five to three with respect to Japan, that our submarines be su-
perior to those of Japan in that ratio. Japan has a total of sixty-
six modern effective submarines built and building. In order to
balance our fleet it is necessary that we have a total of not less than
110, which number is forty-five more than our present effectives,
built, building and authorized. These new submarines should be
of two types. At least half of them should be of sufficiently high
surface speed to enable them to accompany the fleet in battle and
have a steaming radius, at moderate fleet speed, as great as that
of our destroyers. The remainder should be of moderate surface


  p. 1128 (#36)                       

1128
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
speed, fairly high submerged speed and have sufficient fuel capacity
to be self sustaining for a period of from six weeks to two months.
Aircraft and Aircraft Carriers.—The accepted inference that
aircraft are to form an integral part of a modern fleet is not based
on actual performances in the past. During the Great War the
operation of flying machines in conjunction with the fleets was
very limited. They took no part in the Battle of Jutland. The
plans of Admiral Scheer contemplated the employment of Zep-
pelins for scouting prior to the sortie of the German High Seas
Fleet. This sortie was not made with a fleet action in view but was
for the purpose of covering certain raiding operations on the Eng-
lish coast, fathered by the hope that a detachment of the British
fleet would be trapped. But weather conditions prevented the use of
the Zeppelins, and in consequence Scheer had to change his plans.
Heavier-than-air craft were used independently of the fleets
chiefly as patrols, and as escorts of convoys as protective measures
against submarines. The development of flying machines has gone
forward with such rapid strides, their future employment in much
wider spheres than were undertaken during the Great War has
become apparent. The possible uses of air craft extend into the
field of scouting, screening, patrolling, escorting, bombing and
spotting. In each one of these classes of operations they will be
involved with surface ships. Heavier-than-air flying machines
have not yet acquired the capacity of operating at great distances
from land without the necessity of having surface craft bases.
Lighter-than-air ships have had their possible effectiveness greatly
increased by the replacement of hydrogen by helium. They are
capable of operating at great distances over the sea without the aid
of surface craft. So, in determining as to what aircraft are re-
quired for our fleet, it is necessary to consider the heavier-than-air
machines in connection with the surface vessels on which they
will be carried, or by which they will be tended, while the lighter-
than-air ships can be decided on independently of surface vessels.
We have come to recognize that airplanes should be carried on
as many of the combatant surface ships of the fleet as can be done
without otherwise lessening their offensive characteristics. The
number of such planes is, therefore, determined by the number of
these ships that can carry them, but the fleet requires many more
planes than can be carried on board the regular combatant ships.


  p. 1129 (#37)                       

1925]
1129
A Balanced Fleet for the Navy
This is recognized by all nations. Its importance was made evi-
dent by the provisions of the Limitation of Armament Treaty
which placed the ratio of airplane carriers allowed to the United
States, Great Britain, and Japan on exactly the same basis as the
capital ships. The treaty defines an aircraft carrier as:
A vessel of war with a displacement in excess of 10,000 tons standard
displacement designed for the specific and exclusive purpose of carrying
aircraft. It must be so constructed that aircraft can be launched therefrom
and landed thereon, and not designed and constructed for carrying a more
powerful armament than that allowed to it under Article IX or Article X
as the case may be.
The articles referred to limit the caliber of gun that may be car-
ried on aircraft carriers to eight inches. In the case of the two
carriers permitted with a displacement greater than 27,000 tons,
only eight 8-inch guns may be carried. All other carriers may
carry ten of these guns.
The total aircraft carrier displacement authorized for the three
nations which are concerned in the 5-5-3 ratio are 135,000 tons
each for the United States and Great Britain, and 81,000 tons for
Japan. This permits of the two former each having five carriers
of 27,000 each, and Japan having three carriers of this displace-
ment. The fleets of the three nations can profitably employ all the
aircraft that can be attained. Their respective navies will even-
tually be governed in this respect by the limitations placed on the
carriers by the treaty. It is apparent that the United States fleet,
in order to be made as effective as possible should maintain the full
aircraft carrier strength permitted by the treaty. For a proper
balance it should, at all times, he equal in this respect to Great
Britain, and superior to Japan in the ratio of five to three.
There is in existence only one completed aircraft carrier, classed
as of the first line. This belongs to Great Britain. Of experi-
mental or second line ships, which, in accordance with the terms
of the treaty may be replaced, the United States and Japan each
have one, while Great Britain has two. The building programs of
the three nations show that Great Britain has three under con-
struction with a total displacement of 56,300 tons; the United
States, two, with a displacement of 66,000 tons and Japan two,
with a displacement of 53,900 tons. It is thus seen that in this
important fleet element the United States is not keeping pace with


  p. 1130 (#38)                       

1130
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Great Britain, nor are we ahead of Japan in the ratio of five to
three.
The indications are that the control of the air will be an im-
portant factor in any future naval battle or overseas campaign.
Therefore, in order to balance our fleet so as to give it at least an
equal chance in this respect, there should immediately be a pro-
gram which will provide for the full 135,000 tons of aircraft car-
riers as provided for in the treaty.
In regard to the growing importance of aircraft, certain features
as laid down in the treaty while not at present appearing impor-
tant, may become so at a future date. One of these is the specifica-
tion that a vessel is not classed as an airplane carrier unless of a
displacement greater than 10,000 tons. It is within the realm of
possibility that some nation or nations may attach sufficient im-
portance to the air to start a building program of vessels to be used
exclusively for carrying aircraft with displacements less than
10,000 tons. Such ships, in accordance with the letter of the
treaty, would not be aircraft carriers and need not be included in
the limit of displacement authorized for such vessels. Whether or
not their construction violates the spirit of the treaty would un-
doubtedly depend on which nation started the construction.
Another feature is the treaty definition of an aircraft carrier
which states that the vessel must be designed for, “the specific and
exclusive purpose of carrying aircraft.” It is well within the realm
of probability that some nation or nations will design vessels with
the specific purpose of carrying aircraft, but not with the exclusive
purpose. If these vessels should have guns of greater caliber than
eight inches, or if they should displace more than 10,000 tons they
would be classified as capital ships and would have to be included
in the authorized capital ship ratio.*
* Since writing the above announcement has been made to the effect that
the two new British capital ships which are to be called the Rodney and
Nelson will embody the features of the present day capital ship and of air-
plane carriers. They are to have a battery of 16-inch guns all placed forward
of the foremast, and there will be a flying on deck abaft the smoke-stacks.
These vessels cannot have a displacement greater than 35,000 tons to con-
form with treaty requirements. They must be classed as capital ships as
they carry 16-inch guns. They are not aircraft carriers within the treaty
classification because of the large guns, and because they are not for the
"exclusive” purpose of carrying aircraft. There must be a sacrifice in some


  p. 1131 (#39)                       

1925)
1131
A Balanced Fleet for the Navy
While these two special cases do not influence our balanced fleet
of today, there is the possibility that they may influence it as soon
as our first replacement program or the replacement program of
some other nation begins. It therefore seems fitting that they
should be given some thought at this time.
There is nothing in the Treaty for the Limitation of Naval
Armaments for preventing a nation from building as many lighter-
than-air ships as may be desired. In this country the value of
such vessels becomes certain by the advent of helium. The infor-
mation service of the fleet, especially in view of our weakness in
light cruisers would be greatly enhanced by a number of airships.
The recent successful long distance flights of the Shenandoah and
the Los Angeles are impressive as being indicative of the future
value of this class of ship in naval campaigns. The fleet should be
augmented by at least five additional lighter-than-air ships, which
should operate with the fleet as a part of such. Whether or not
further additional airships should be built must depend on the re-
sults obtained in these operations.
Non-combatant Vessels.—The necessity of a fleet train is ap-
parent. No fleet can carry out a successful campaign without
certain noncombatant auxiliaries that are necessary for its logistic
requirements. There must be ships for carrying fuel, water, am-
munition, food and supplies of all sorts. There must be tenders
for the care of destroyers, submarines and heavier-than-air craft.
There must be repair ships and hospital ships. In addition there
are required certain smaller vessels which might in a way be classi-
fied as combatant ships, such as mine sweepers, mine layers, patrol
vessels and tugs. As pointed out at the beginning of this paper
only the character and the number of the combatant ships that
should compose our fleet would be examined into. Therefore, the
numbers of all these different types of train vessels which are
necessary for a fleet, will not be determined here. Suffice it to say
that their numbers depend on the composition and size of the com-
batant fleet.
military quality, which, it is ventured to suggest will be in the weight of
side armor. The unusual design of these ships leads to the supposition that
they may be intended for use as fleet flagships, and that the hybrid char-
acter which they feature may be intended only for these two vessels, and
may not be included in future designs.


  p. 1132 (#40)                       

1132
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Conclusion.—The balanced feet for the United States Navy
requires :
I. Eighteen battleships, all maintained in the highest state of
efficiency. This necessitates in the cases of some of them: (a)
An increase in the elevation of guns. (b) A change from coal fuel
to oil fuel. (c) Increased protection against torpedoes and bombs.
2. Sixty modern light cruisers. In order that our strength in
this respect may equal that of Great Britain and be superior to that
of Japan in the ratio of five to three, there should be authorized a
building program of fifty new vessels, ten of which should be laid
down each year for the next five years.
3. Two hundred seventy destroyers (our present number).
As all of these vessels are the same age, and, in consequence, be-
come obsolete at practically the same time, a replacement program
should be immediately initiated.
4. Fifteen destroyer leaders. There are no vessels of this type
in the fleet. All of them should be provided for at once.
5. One hundred ten modern effective submarines. In order to
obtain this number a building program of forty-five new vessels is
necessary. All new submarines should be capable of operating as
a part of and with the fleet.
6. Five first-line airplane carriers. There are two under con-
struction. Three additional should be laid down as soon as prac-
ticable.
7. Six lighter-than-air ships. As the Los Angeles is only, for
commercial purposes, provision should be made to augment the
Shenandoah by five new dirigibles.
8. Sufficient train vessels to insure the efficient operation of the
combatant fleet.
This country prides itself on the justice of its proclaimed poli-
cies. We still recognize that a reasonable amount of armament is es-
sential. This armament can best be incorporated in a balanced fleet.
"A just man armed keepeth his house in order."


  p. 1133 (#41)                       

SANITY IN AVIATION
By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER RALPH WOOD, U. S. NAVY
THERE has recently reoccurred a flood of wild statements
and loose generalization relative to aviation in general and
naval aviation in particular. This has been occasioned by
the rather passionate though misguided efforts of those addicted
to the phantom of a so-called United Air Service. In every age it
appears that some human hope reaches out for its moon of uni-
versal panacea. Just now if we could believe, we are assured that
a "united air service” will cure all of our ills, do away forever with
the necessity of an army and navy, reduce taxes and generally
bring in the millenium.
One of the misleading ideas which has been advanced by avia-
tion enthusiasts, and one which, having been accepted by the public
has done real harm to aviation, is the widely published statement
that aviation is cheap; that it is an inexpensive method of warfare.
Careful study of available figures does not bear out this statement.
The idea that one plane with one bomb can completely destroy
one battleship, in view of the fact that the plane costs but $20,000
while the battleship costs $40,000,000 apparently presents an im-
mediate solution of the financial problems attending national in-
surance. However, upon investigation, we find that to get this
one bomber into position requires the services of many other
planes. In the first place, to insure that a reasonable number of
planes reach their objective it is necessary that a whole squadron
ranging in strength from eighteen to thirty-six be launched. To
protect this squadron in its mission, combat planes in the propor-
tions of two or three to one must be provided. Furthermore, such
is the present state of the art of aviation in regard to reliability
and operating radius that in order to keep one plane in the air,
four planes must be available. One begins to notice now how our
one plane has suddenly multiplied itself into the hundred class.
Then with this number of planes to maintain we find it necessary
to retain the services of still more planes at headquarters for mes-


  p. 1134 (#42)                       


STA
THE U.S.S. "LANGLEY," THE Navy's EXPERIMENTAL AIRCRAFT CARRIER, WITH THE FLEET OFF THE Coast
OF CUBA. NOTE THE PLANES ON THE FLYING DECK OF THE "LANGLEY," READY TO TAKE THE AIR,


  p. 1135 (#43)                       

1925)
1135
Sanity in Aviation
senger and liaison service. Also, if the enemy is not obliging
enough to disclose his whereabouts, we must have squadrons of
scout planes to go out and find him.
Going still farther, we see that a base must be provided for all
of this aerial equipment which includes large landing areas, numer-
ous big hangars, gasoline storage tanks, trucks, store houses for
spares, barracks for mechanics and guard troops. The personnel
as one can imagine is not small. For one thing, aviation demands
a much larger proportion of officer strength than does any other
combat arm. There is at least one officer in every plane and, in
many, two are required. About this time we find also that our
$20,000 plane has vanished, for planes to do the work outlined
range from $20,000 up to $100,000 so that our average cost rises
to approximately $40,000 or $50,000. Our attention is also drawn
to the fact that, whereas the “official” life of a battleship is ac-
cepted as fifteen years, a plane's life is but three. Furthermore,
during that three years the plane's different parts will have been
replaced at least once. In other words, at the end of three years
we will have to write the plane off our books at twice its original
value. Without complex analysis it is still readily apparent that
our aviation endeavor is going to cost very nearly as much as does
the target.
The above assumptions have followed in general the ideas of
masses of planes with which our aviation enthusiasts so easily
darken the skies, and furthermore consider the easiest problem,
that in which the enemy calmly comes into our immediate vicinity
courting combat.
Suppose, however, he is inconsiderate enough to stay a few
hundred miles at sea and from this position throttle the commerce
and world-wide communications of the country? It is true that
proponents of the plane (extremists) blithely send the planes over-
seas to where the enemy may happen to be, but in practice this is
not so easily done. The army world cruisers (a modified navy
type torpedo plane) may be accepted as a fair sample of a modern
plane. The longest flight made by these planes was approximately
900 miles. To achieve this distance extra tanks of gasoline were
built into the plane. This increased weight precluded the possi-
bility of carrying any military load such as bombs, torpedoes, guns
and ammunition. In order to accomplish a strictly military mis-


  p. 1136 (#44)                       

1136
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
sion this peace time overseas travel melts like snow in the sun. In
placing the machine guns, ammunition, bombs and bomb sights in
the plane, gasoline must be sacrificed. When the machine is thus
equipped we find her capable, at her most economical speed, of
traveling about 400 miles, 200 off shore and 200 back. Not so good
if that is our sole reliance against ships that roam the seven seas.
In order then to bring our aviation threat to the enemy ship we
are forced to the consideration of an airplane carrier. Let us see
what that procedure involves. We can build two real carriers
under the treaty, with a possibility of development some time in
the future of a carrier within the treaty restrictions of 10,000
tons. On each of these large carriers, costing by the way a matter
of forty to forty-five millions each, we can crowd seventy assorted
planes. Not all can be bombers because some fighting planes must
be provided. If the carrier is to be used to seek out and engage
our enemy battleship, our hordes of planes shrink to 140, of which
possibly one third are bombers. And as these planes must be man-
handled from holds and hangar decks onto the flying deck and from
there flown off, proper allowance in time must be made for this
maneuver. From the time the first plane takes the air until the
last is off may take an hour at a minimum. To recover the planes
will take no less time so that one hour is cut off the cruising time
of the planes. This means that our carrier must approach that
much closer to the target. In doing so she naturally subjects her-
self to the ordinary hazards of torpedo and gun attack with the
added possibility that one or two enemy planes with light bombs
may so cripple her large flying deck as to prevent the recovery of
our planes.
The easiest problem for the defense was shown to be costly but
the second problem is more costly still. We see that the lure of
cheap warfare held out by aviation extremists vanishes like mist.
We can dispense with the cheapness idea of aviation. It is most
decidedly not a cheap weapon but a very expensive one.
There are two other statements advanced from time to time in
regard to naval aviation which will not bear the light of actual fact.
One is that the older and directing heads of the Navy are antag-
onistic to and oppose the progress of aviation. Also that the
younger officers are so muzzled that the true condition (asserted


  p. 1137 (#45)                       


New Navy Long Distance PATROL SEAPLANE, TYPE PN-7


  p. 1138 (#46)                       

1138
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
to be backward) of naval aviation is not permitted to be known.
Neither of these statements is true.
In performance of his aviation duty the writer has had at vari-
ous times contact with many naval officers of high rank. Unfail-
ingly and without exception, these officers have evidenced in speech
and action their sincere interest in the advancement of the art of
aviation. They have been most sympathetic in their attitude toward
the demands of naval aviation and have gone much more than
half way in fostering and encouraging this arm of the Navy. How
anyone in a responsible position could be more liberal minded and
interested in the development of aviation than the present com-
manders-in-chief of the United States fleet and battle fleet and still
be human it is hard to see. Such officers have many factors to con-
sider in the proper rounding out of their duties and it is safe to
say that aviation has received and is receiving more than its pro-
portionate share of their attention. They recognize the fact that
aviation although important is but one factor among many that
must be considered when modern warfare is contemplated.
As for the statement that younger naval officers are muzzled, the
writer from experience knows nothing further from the truth.
From his own observation during eighteen years of naval service
he has never elsewhere observed the latitude allowed and sympa-
thetic interest taken in the ideas advanced by younger officers. This
is true not only within the aviation specialty itself, but in contact
between such specialists and older line officers who have previously
had little operating contact with aviation.
One conclusive proof of the interest which the older and ex-
perienced officers have taken in regard to aviation may be cited
in the matter of war plans. All that the writer has seen and is
familiar with have made careful and far-sighted provision for the
proper developnient of naval aviation facilities and employment.
Not only this, but these practical minded sailors have gone one step
farther, and in accepting the prophecies of our own aviation ex-
perts, have made proper and ample provision for the advantageous
employment of such advance in naval aviation as it is possible to
conceive today.
Those charged with the material development of aviation in the
Navy have been far from lagging in their efforts. In fact, the
United States Navy is responsible for a considerable part of the


  p. 1139 (#47)                       

1925)
1139
Sanity in Aviation
advance which has been made in aviation since the war. With
characteristic navy attitude no great shouting has accompanied
these accomplishments. Being slightly irritated by the constant
buzzing and stinging of irresponsible critics, the Navy decided to
publish some of their accomplishments. So stopping the regular
grind for a short time the Navy went out and annexed the record
for the fastest land plane in the world, then the record for the
fastest seaplane in the world, (we already had the Atlantic flight,
by Commander Read under our belt), and then one after another
numerous duration, weight and altitude world records. Then we
went back to work and left the rest to shoot at our marks. The
Navy has not considered it worth the cost to keep actively in the
racing game. Our money is expended in service craft and their
operation. But when called upon we need take nobody's slip
stream. The Navy has developed the first reliable rigid, a system
of water recovery from exhaust gases, reliable air cooled motors
and several special aeronautical engines which for ruggedness and
performance are well to the front. The Navy has further per-
fected the catapult to the point where the commander-in-chief,
battle fleet, is justified in publishing the following comment:
The commander-in-chief, battle fleet, is pleased to note that catapulting
of planes has now progressed sufficiently to warrant such operations when-
ever opportunity permits and plane service is desired.
This progress has been made possible only through the concerted efforts
of all concerned and the general confidence of the fleet's personnel results
from the many successful catapult shots to date.
The commander-in-chief, battle fleet, desires that every effort be made
to continue this development and that no failures or casualties, particularly
those involving material and possible of predetermination, occur to mar the
established good record or shake the confidence of the operating personnel.
When critics state that the Navy has not kept and is not keeping
abreast of aviation advancement they are right only in that the
Navy is leading in much of it.
Finally, those personally interested in a so-called "united air
service” talk in large round generalities of the savings and econ-
omies to be realized by an amalgamation. Careful analysis will
not disclose these economies. It is a fact which will not down that
air mail, army and navy requirements are different one from the
other, that the equipment proper for one is improper for the other,
'In connection with the Army and the Bureau of Standards.


  p. 1140 (#48)                       


AL
The World's Fastest SeaPLANE. THE NAVY "R-2-C-2,” WHICH IN UNOFFICIAL TRIALS HAS MADE OVER 225 MILES
PER Hour. The Racing Plane IS A FLYING LABORATORY FOR FIGHTING PLANE DEVELOPMENT.


  p. 1141 (#49)                       

1925]
1141
Sanity in Aviation
that the personnel of one performs duties almost totally different
from the others. For mind you, the ability to conduct a plane
about on its legitimate business is the least of a properly trained
aviator's duties.
To discuss the naval arm simply, we take our men and officers
from the same training and concentration centers as do the other
naval branches. Naval aviators must be familiar with ships and
be sea-going, they must understand the tactics and strategy of
scout ships, destroyers, submarines and battleships and their har-
monious employment as fleets. They must have an intimate knowl-
edge of the methods of gun control, because one of their important
jobs is in connection therewith.
A so-called "united air force” would be required to supply per-
sonnel as well fitted to naval needs, and in addition, personnel to
serve the Army in its manifold duties. Is one man to be able to
do both? Very improbable. There is a limit to human endeavor.
If two sets of personnel are to be developed within one organiza-
tion with all the special equipment demanded by the circumstances,
the organization will be much like a hen attempting the rearing of
one chick and one duck. There will be plenty of distraction.
Some people stress present duplication of effort and feel this
will be cured by amalgamation of all aviation. But is there dupli-
cation ? And if there is, will it be cured? As a matter of fact
there is practically no duplication of effort as regards the present
administration of aviation under the Army and Navy. Planes
and engines, ordered from manufacturers are not similar for the
two services, nor are they likely to be except in special instances.
Amalgamation of repair stations would not effect economies.
Against a prevalent belief that manufacturing under one head is
economical, we find that little or no manufacturing is done by the
services. Repair and overhaul consists mainly in replacement and
adjustment of parts and men qualified to work on one engine may
not be qualified to work on another.
On the other hand, amalgamation of the two air services would
immediately introduce duplication from the top to the bottom.
First, we duplicate a whole new department in the government
with a secretary, assistant secretaries, heads of bureaus, office
space, clerks and messengers. There would be another recruiting
bureau and staff, another academy, similar to West Point and


  p. 1142 (#50)                       

1142
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Annapolis, for the training of officer personnel and training depots
for the enlisted men. We would find the need for a corps of flight
surgeons, a corps of quartermasters or pay officers, a corps of de-
signers. The new service would take over some of the present air
stations but there would immediately arise the need for acquisition
. of new sites. New and more buildings, motor boats, trucks and
horses formerly supplied gratis by the mother services must be
purchased. And finally there must be obtained carriers and tenders
with all the appurtenances under control of the new service. If
this does not entail duplication, what does ? And then picture the
air commodore and the fleet admiral getting together to give battle
to the enemy. Or the commanding general and air commodore in
land warfare! Each would be independent and yet each needing
the other. What, without economy and lacking efficiency, is the
excuse for this new service?
Every weapon has not only its possibilities, but also its limita-
tions. Those who would master a weapon must be familiar with
those limitations if they are to develop that weapon's utmost ex-
ecution. In discussing aviation, enthusiastic proponents have
drawn largely from future possibilities but have neglected the in-
herent limitations of aircraft. The limitations of aircraft are
many, and realizing this fact, the Navy has busied itself in incor-
porating the aviation branch within the fleet so that strength is
afforded aircraft where they are weakest in order that they may,
when the opportunity presents, deliver their maximum war effort.
Those who maintain that the Navy is derelict in its development
of aviation within the limits set by the state of advancement of
the art and the money provided by Congress do so with no founda-
tion in fact. It is well for the country to know this. It is also
well for the country to remember that the personnel operating our
aircraft have passed all tests required for other naval personnel ;
they have performed the same duties on the bridge, in the turret
and in the engine room. They know from experience the kind of
service the Navy demands and are prepared and anxious to give it.


  p. 1143 (#51)                       

WHAT MIGHT HAVE HAPPENED
AT JUTLAND
By Captain Thos. C. Hart, U. S. NAVY
UR title does not indicate any intention to parody a certain
article on Jutland by a very able author of our service who
was early in the field. Since his work, such a mass of
literature has been produced on the subject that it is difficult to
justify an attempt to add to it. Much of the writing, particularly
that of late date, is largely controversial and tending to create or
keep alive the disputes between high commanders which seems to
be a rather characteristic aftermath of great naval battles. This
effort is not an attempt to engage in or contribute to such con-
troversies.
It is safe to say that there never has been a great battle in which
mistakes were not made, and also, that in most of them some high
commander has made errors of considerable import. It is fairly
easy for even ordinary minds to discover these mistakes and to
express criticism. Moreover, it is entertaining to do so, at least
so for him who writes on it. Perhaps such entertainment is the best
excuse that can be advanced for this attempt, which is made with
full realization that some reticence is becoming in criticizing the
actions of high commanders, after the events.
Unlike most of the real literature on Jutland, our criticism is
directed at the German side. What is being put forward is largely
fiction, as befits our title.
It will be recalled that the German high seas fleet went to sea
for an operation planned, in its essence, to bring on an engagement
with a portion only of the British grand fleet. Certainly, in the
light of what actually occurred, there can be found no fault in the
conception, the plan or in the initial disposition of forces to carry
it out. On the morning of the battle, the German submarines sent
Admiral Scheer certain information concerning movements of
British forces to seaward. His reaction to that information is
expressed in his book: ".... showed a possibility that our hope


  p. 1144 (#52)                       

SI
Screen
S
st
2105
(4 )
กxt กนี
55'in
-----
2000s
Serle
Yaros
-
SDI
(50)
---
PLATE I
Positions at 442, when BC Fand HSF make sight contact
Tracks of leaders of 8 CF and VBS and of HSF and SDI
shown from 348 onward


  p. 1145 (#53)                       

1925)
1145
What Might Have Happened at Jutland
of meeting with separate enemy divisions was likely to be ful-
filled. We were, therefore, all the more determined to keep to our
plan.” Thus far, all was well on the German side.
What the Germans were to do upon such a meeting is not alto-
gether clear. Admiral Scheer was, of course, planning to fight in
superior strength. It was to be expected that any British detach-
ment likely to be met would be of fast capital ships, battle cruisers
or Queen Elizabeths, or both, with accompanying light forces.
That is, the British detachment being sought was very likely to be
either more powerful or faster than the German force which would
make the first contact with it. In such situation, the tactical prob-
lem which the Germans had to solve was how to apply their su-
periority of strength, in order to destroy that British detachment,
which was the recognized tactical objective. The Germans were
not out for a mere indecisive brush; actual destruction of a sizable
portion of the British fleet alone would serve their immediate
purpose.
Given the tactical characteristics of the forces, it is clear that
the Germans could be sure of success only by acting on the ham-
mer-and-anvil principle. That is, the thing could be done with
certainty only by some degree of division of forces, possibly to an
extent which under ordinary circumstances could be held to be
tactical heresy. Whatever the extent to which Admiral Scheer
was willing to divide his forces, it is at least clear that he did have
the “hammer-and-anvil” idea. The evidence bearing thereon will
appear later.
The events of the first phase of the Battle of Jutland are com-
mon knowledge. It is now known that the results, up to the time
when Admiral Beatty sighted the German battleships, were: two
British battle cruisers sunk and one damaged, (Lion had one turret
knocked out and was out of the line for some time); one German
battle cruiser considerably damaged and one somewhat injured ;
two or three destroyers lost on both sides. Summing up, Admiral
Von Hipper had bested a British force of superior material fight-
ing strength and at least equal speed. For it, the German Navy
has been highly praised, and justly so. Also, an end-to-end junc-
ture was made between Admirals Scheer and Von Hipper and the
latter consequently "saved,” for which both those commanders
have been praised. But what about the German plan? The British


  p. 1146 (#54)                       

1146
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
detachment is at this stage about to turn and run out of danger;
its destruction is what the Germans came to sea for.
On Plate I there is shown the familiar course of the battle
cruiser action, from 3:48 to 4:42. There is also shown, as well as
may be, the movements of Admiral Scheer's own force during the
same period. It is quite evident that this force was not in tactical
readiness to carry out the German plan. At 3:35, Admiral Scheer
learned that Von Hipper had found just what they were looking
for and rather confidently expecting, and since the scouting force
had found it, the discovery at that particular place should not have
been a surprise. At the time, the German battleships were in one
long column, with ships at 700 meters and with 3,500 meters be-
tween squadrons; the fastest squadron was leading and in the far
rear was the very much slower squadron II. It is manifest that
the tactical readiness which the plan called for lay in a formation
normal to the point where it was expected to first encounter the
enemy; in other words, a line of squadrons, or even divisions,
normal to the German battle cruisers' position. It does not look
like a very serious error and probably is not. But—the first step
was to reduce distances in the battle fleet and, to do so, the head of
the column had to wait for the rear ship, a slow pre-dreadnought at
that, to close 8,800 meters or nearly five miles. That took time
and, although Admiral Scheer heard at 3:45 that six British battle
cruisers were being drawn toward him, it was not until 4:05 that
his own command seems to have done anything except to close up.
The lost time evidently did not worry Admiral Scheer for even
then he proceeded at only 15 knots. It is well now to quote from
Admiral Scheer's official report on the Battle of Jutland, as it is
given in his book :
The message received at 3:45 from the chief of reconnaissance that he
was engaged with six enemy battle cruisers on a southeasterly course showed
that he had succeeded in meeting the enemy, and as he fought was drawing
him closer to our main fleet. The duty of the main fleet was now to hasten
as quickly as possible to support the battle cruisers, which were inferior as
to material, and to endeavor to hinder the premature retreat of the enemy.
At 4:05, therefore, I took a northwesterly course at a speed of 15 knots,
and a quarter of an hour later altered it to a westerly course in order to
place the enemy between two fires, as he, on his southerly course, would
have to push between our line and that of the battle cruisers." (Italics by
the author.)


  p. 1147 (#55)                       

1925]
1147
What Might Have Happened at Jutland
The opinion is ventured, parenthetically, that Admiral Scheer's
book is a conscientious attempt at true portrayal, at least from the
personal standpoint; it does not appear to be in the nature of ex-
cuse or justification of own acts. There is believed to be much
significance in the above quotation. We see in it a purpose to ad-
here to the original plan and a realization that some application of
the hammer-and-anvil principle should be made. But, we also see
concern for the security of the German battle cruisers. Under the
circumstances, any leader might well have been so concerned.
Nevertheless Admiral Scheer, rather tardily it is true, maneuvered
his immediate command in furtherance of the plan. While doing
so, his perturbation may very well have been such that he needed
assurance from his seemingly over-matched detachment. He got
the other thing.
Before the long German column had completed its course change
to west, or a little after 4:20, the commander-in-chief received a
message to the effect that four (or five) British battleships had
"joined in the fight." The actual story of the result of that mes-
sage also appears in Admiral Scheer's report : "The situation thus
was becoming critical for scouting division I, confronted as they
were by six battle cruisers and five battleships. Naturally, there-
fore, everything possible had to be done to get into touch with
them, and a change was made back to a northerly course."
The succeeding phases of the battle are history. They by no
means followed the German plan, the tactical essence of which
was abandoned when the battleships turned north to succor the
battle cruisers. Such was the direct consequence of the one and
only message which Admiral Von Hipper is known to have sent
after the battle really began. We know what was the actual situa-
tion at about the time the message must have been sent but don't
know how that situation appeared to the sender. How should or
could it have appeared to him?
Given five ships against six, a two-ships-to-one concentration
was to be expected. It occurred and was against the German flag-
ship Lutzow; yet she not only withstood it without serious injury
but had also driven one of her adversaries out of the line. Ad-
miral Von Hipper was in position to know the probable worst,
which was clearly at his own end of the column. At the rear end
of it, Von der Tann had sunk her opponent. None of the German


  p. 1148 (#56)                       

Gr Fl.fr BCF
50 mit 5 10
348
25ks
ADS
, 3-LCS
5.10
(400
HLCS(400
5 10
Wind
2-3
5.00
CL
SDI (4(L)
(286
)
6 10
10DD
VBS
• 174
B.SI
5.00
24.000....
...
000 OSO
Flot I
Floty
SDI
.
510
.
.
0090
Hot
.
..
.
..
Hot
450
.
...
101
6.CF
510 1200
21051
• 510 5L)
.
.19.000
...28 ODD
BST
510
Fl-
11
4 00
AOS
(105)
B.SI
6005
Lowledge
Flot III
Scole in yords
21k
PLATE I
Possible Positions of 5.10. Sight Contacts with BSI
and I would be between 500 and 510 B.S-I not yet een
Trocks of Leoders of Capitol Ship Units only are shown


  p. 1149 (#57)                       

1925)
1149
What Might Have Happened at Jutland
cruisers were showing loss of speed and there was no visible evi-
dence of any injury more serious than Lutzow's, and there had not
been such. Before 4:10, there must have been considerable evi-
dence available on the flagship which indicated that the British
battle cruisers were being beaten. Why did not Von Hipper
reassure his commander-in-chief at least to that extent?
Four British battleships had “joined in the fight”; but at a very
extreme range. It could at least have been seen that they were far
abaft the beam, and known that they had not the speed to improve
their position. Why should not the actual situation, as regards
those battleships, have been made known, instead of a statement
so framed that it was bound to be alarming? In short, at the time
the actual message was sent, the German cruisers were up against
four cruisers and not six, plus four or five battleships, as Admiral
Scheer was led to believe. The situation required a message not
only reassuring but distinctly encouraging to the German com-
mander-in-chief; and there is no reason to suppose that he would
not then have adhered to the plan. Before Lion got back into the
fight, at about 4:30, the Queen Mary blew up. News of that lat-
ter success would have strengthened a German resolve to carry
the thing through as they started. Finally, why did Von Hipper,
who must have been indoctrinated in applying the principle of co-
operation, commit an error of such far-reaching consequences, by
means of the only message which he sent while his flagship was
engaged?
Admiral Von Hipper's immediate adversary, Admiral Beatty,
has been accused of improperly, and very incompletely, informing
his commander-in-chief during those phases of the action in which
he was the combat leader. We have then both the seconds in com-
mand possibly guilty of the same mistakes, serious mistakes in
that they were directly against the principle of co-operation. Yet
these two officers stood among the leaders in their profession. The
coincidence makes us wonder if the blame should rest on individ-
uals or upon naval systems. In modern land battle, a serious diffi-
culty confronting leaders is to keep in touch with the combat suffi-
ciently for exercising good judgment in making the decisions
required. In naval battle, are the high leaders not much too close
to the fighting to carry out their true functions and was not that


  p. 1150 (#58)                       

1150
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
condition at fault, rather than individuals? However, to get ahead
with our fiction.
What Might Have Happened.-Plate II is constructed on cer-
tain fictitious assumptions but is based on the actual disposition of
forces that was in effect when the battle began. Assume that Von
Hipper had run as straight as the engagement permitted and had
kept his chief informed of events, results and the actual situation
as regards positions, courses and speed; assume, in consequence,
that Admiral Scheer had adhered to the plan and also had taken
such farther risks, in separating his battle squadrons, as were
necessary to apply fully the hammer-and-anvil principle; in effect,
thus to construct a broad-faced anvil. The German positions shown
on the plate give the dispositions which would have resulted had
the four principal squadrons maneuvered in about the way that
best fitted the situation.
No particular assumptions are necessary for the British side.
Admiral Beatty's own acts clearly indicate the probability that he
would have plunged straight into the German trap. The trap
would begin to spring somewhere between 5:00 and 5:10, with the
grand feet fifty miles away. The possibilities in the case are very
entertaining to the conjecturer. It is safe to guess that British
light cruiser squadrons I and III would escape for they had the
speed to do so and they demonstrated a fair degree of prudence
during the real battle. The four Queen Elizabeths, with attached
light forces, could escape if they turned left immediately. Under
the circumstances, it is not at all likely that their commander would
have so turned unless and until so ordered by Admiral Beatty. By
the time such order could have been given it would have been too
late; it is much more likely that the Queen Elizabeths would have
gone into the trap with their battle cruisers. Three general courses
would then have been open to the British:
(a) To the eastward, fighting their way over Von Hipper and
with his three destroyer flotillas in fine position for attacks.
(b) To the southward, over the German predreadnoughts,
which could very well have been thus expended; in any event, the
British detachment would have a very long run-around before they
would be clear of the trap.
(c) To the southwestward, German battle squadron I would
not yet have been sighted but would soon be in range.


  p. 1151 (#59)                       

1925)
1151
What Might Have Happened at Jutland
We will leave readers, if any, to do their own guessing on the
probable results from such a line-up, following any likely courses
of action by the British. It is enlightening roughly to game-board
the situation, particularly so if it be remembered that the Germans
showed at least equality in gunnery and that the British ships did
not survive very much hitting. Anyhow there would have been
inside the trap, or have been destroyed before it was sprung: six
battle cruisers, four battleships, six light cruisers and twenty-seven
destroyers, the cream in speed and power of the British fleet.
What "might have happened” is the absolute destruction of that
detachment and with scant loss of German ships. Admiral Scheer
could have called it a day, returned to port and left Admiral Jelli-
coe nothing to do but pick up the pieces.
This fiction has already run far and it is just as well not to try
to imagine what the effect of such a battle would have been upon
the World War as a whole. This much we may say: In looking
back over the turns of events of the whole war, where one error
or another swung over the victory pendulum, and supposing that
it is still the open season for criticizing high naval leaders, why is
not the much and justly praised Admiral Von Hipper also one of
those who lost the war?


  p. 1152 (#60)                       

ARMAMENT BY EXAMPLE AND
ARBITRATION
By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER E. S. R. BRANDT, U. S. NAVY
I THILE modern Jeffersonians in America are preaching
“Disarmament by Example” and persuading an amazing
number of Americans possessing (what one scientist calls)
a female complex, to believe in it, other nations are gradually
bringing their peace armaments up to date and, incidentally, send-
ing their disarmament-preaching pacifists to lecture in America,
where a more fertile field for this sort of fad exists. Armament
is now going on in Europe and in Japan but it is not analogous to
that pre-war race for military and naval supremacy initiated by
German pretentions to European hegemony, a race which resulted
in armaments now mostly gone, either wasted in war or scrapped
as obsolete in post-war peace. Pre-war governments added battle-
ships and battalions year after year to already huge establishments
in preparation for war. The nations of Europe are now preparing
against war by arming with a carefully calculated supply of the
latest and most effective weapons, these as a means of obtaining
peace from those aggressively inclined and as a means of obtain-
ing respectful consideration and fair play in the coming race for
opportunities to reach markets and to develop the natural and vir-
gin wealth of the world as yet scarcely touched in Asia, Africa
and South America. The wealth of Europe is so heavily mort-
gaged as a result of the war that it is only by the development of
new wealth through commerce that war debts can be paid and the
burden of taxation lifted. Neither indemnities nor reparations,
which are unnatural methods of financing, can provide such finan-
cial sinews as concessions and commerce.
Europe is through colonizing in the political sense. Free trade
and commercial opportunity throughout the world are recognized
as necessary to future European prosperity by the people of
Europe themselves who are saying so in no uncertain terms with
parliamentary overthrows in those governments which persist in


  p. 1153 (#61)                       

1925)
1153
Armament by Example and Arbitration
looking backward instead of forward. Free trade is a principle
unpopular in the United States.
Never before in the history of Europe have there been so many
representative governments functioning. With the advent of more
universal popular control of government, has come the end of
much secret diplomacy typical of former European chancelleries
and the elimination of many causes for war bred by it. Europe is
arming moderately from popular conviction that the way to end
aggression and the remaining threats of war is to make war cer-
tain and destructive for an aggressor. Such armament is more
an appeal to an alien people than a threat to their government.
Every battleship and bayonet today is a warning to keep the peace.
There is hardly any nation now enjoying independence and a
representative government which would deliberately make war
without exhausting almost every possibility of peaceful solution
through diplomatic prevention, economic or financial pressure,
arbitration or popular referendum. Only the most unusual com-
bination of difficult factors involving a nation's economic existence
or compromising its basic policy of self preservation would make
resort to war inevitable. Yet the constant threat of war remains.
The autocratic governments are gone. The people are in the
saddle of every government but Soviet Russia, the one government
openly maintaining a military establishment for aggressive pur-
poses when the time shall be ripe. With the defeat of Germany,
any immediate military menace disappeared from the western
world. Present and prospective armaments cannot be said to be
menacing but rather encouraging as indicative of budget balancing
and clearer international perspective. Of armies and unsatisfied
national ambitions there are a plenty in the world and especially
in Europe but, since whole nations went to war on the firing line,
in the factories, in the banks, and even in the fields and homes,
Europe has discovered that war is too expensive for either winner
or loser, for in Europe wars cannot be localized. It can hardly be
claimed that any European nation is now arming in the sense that
Germany armed from 1866 to 1914. Nevertheless, European na-
tions are deliberately arming with the latest agents of war, not for
the purpose of precipitating conflicts, but with a grim determina-
tion to retain what they have, to acquire what they legitimately
can, and as preventive preparedness against another such war as


  p. 1154 (#62)                       

1154
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
the last one. This armament is judicious, methodical, and ex-
presses the majority will of the people, who though socialistically
inclined, are alive for the first time, as responsible citizens, to the
importance of peaceful international relations. They are deter-
mined to provide for their future national security and to maintain
military and naval establishments to give weight to their national
aspirations. These European people, with their recently increased
civil and national rights, have recognized the responsibilities in-
cidental to the preservation of self government. Moreover, they
want no wars fought within their own borders and they are more
than willing, almost bankrupt as they are, to insure a period of
peace by the method of "Armament by Example” which, in effect,
is a warning that aggression, though not war, henceforth is out-
lawed. A very healthy respect is growing up among these Euro-
pean peoples for each other since they have come out in the open,
as peoples rather than governments, with their policies and their
armaments.
We have in Europe the unusual spectacle of governments, purg-
ing themselves of almost every individual of importance who had
anything to do with the prosecution of the war, which are socialis-
tic as never before, overwhelming their military and naval estab-
lishments, and strengthening them in a most scientific way.
Government in Japan, though more liberal than it was, is still un-
changed, still militaristic and a fairly good mirror of popular
sentiment. It would appear that no pre-war monarch, premier, nor
lord of the admiralty, was more jealous to maintain his country's
strength or prestige than are these new governments of the people.
There is this difference, though: The foreign policies of the vari-
ous nations are no longer the foreign policies of autocratic gov-
ernments but of the people themselves. The day when sovereigns
declared war for non-national reasons and carried on war with
funds acquired by oppressive taxation or forced loans, is over.
War of that sort became too extravagant and inefficient, and too
dangerous to dynastic permanence. It has dawned on the Euro-
pean peoples who actually go on the firing line to face shot, shell
and steel, that a nation need not go to war unless it is the collective
will of a people to do so and that where that will exists, the whole
nation may be expected to take part in the winning of the war.
These new socialistic governments of European people are curi-


  p. 1155 (#63)                       

1925)
1155
Armament by Example and Arbitration
ously alike in putting forward blunt and bold warnings to each
other to keep the peace and to check aggressive pretentions. To
back up their words of warning, they are making no secret of their
new cruisers, submarines, airplanes and regiments. While the fear
of the Red army is an important factor in the maintenance of
comparatively large armies by the new states of eastern Europe,
jealousy of each other has been the determining factor in diverting
public funds for this purpose. They are all seeking an economic
foothold. They must have peace to consolidate their economic
gains for they must put the greater part of their population to
work or starve. To do this, they are maintaining armies larger
than would be necessary were Europe stabilized but no larger than
they consider necessary at present to discourage aggression or to
protect the working population in their tasks of industrial and
commercial reconstruction; and this protection includes the sup-
pression of communism, especially in the countries where socialism
is most strongly intrenched in the government.
Europeans, who in war time were thought to be treasonable
pacifists, became in post-war days the heads of their respective
governments. They graduated from pacifism. They now realize
that it is the function of government to protect the whole people
and with that idea of protection is indissolubly linked the idea of
strong government. It is impossible for even a pacifist in power
to conceive of a benevolent government ruling without the means
of defending itself from internal or external danger. The pacifist
out of power seeks to weaken an established government by curb-
ing its military strength, effecting (to him) a change to a more
acceptable government even though he thereby delivers the citizens
of his government over to their external enemies and may, in the
end, saddle them with a worse rule. The pacifist, so far-sighted
that his vision is focussed on infinity, is essentially an anarchist,
in that he works innocently or otherwise to overthrow government.
A pacifist is a practical worker only in this quasi-anarchism. He
is impractical in assuming that the demilitarization and consequent
probable overthrow of government necessarily implies a change
for the better and a new era of observance of the Golden Rule.
The pacifist in power is as anxious to preserve his power as any
militarist and becomes a logical target in his turn for the pacifist
out of power. It is possible that the elevation to power of the


  p. 1156 (#64)                       

1156
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
notorious pacifists of England has done more to counteract paci-
fism in England than all of the heroic records of the war put to-
gether. The same seems to be true in France.
There is no evidence that any of the quasi-socialistic govern-
ments of Europe are convinced that the scrapping of certain battle-
ships satisfied the spirit of the Limitation of Armaments Treaty of
1921. The scrapping of ships has been accompanied by the build-
ing of newer and better ones. No one but ourselves thinks of main-
taining only the resulting navies of 1921 which static state, it was
thought, the Limitation of Armaments had accomplished. Even
the pacifists repudiate it as contentment with a poor job only half
done. Only national indifference to national welfare will ever
prevent armaments. There is one thing a socialist government is
not, and cannot afford to be indifferent to, and that is national wel-
fare. Socialism is militaristic at heart.
Europe has cast aside certain governmental traditions among
which was the obsession that the people themselves could not be
trusted to formulate foreign policy. Legislation is usurping many
of the former functions of government in Europe where no Su-
preme Courts exist to check unconstitutional legislation. The will
of the majority is law in parliamentary government. An auto-
matic check does exist, however, in the plurality of political parties
which are active in all such governments. There were fourteen
political parties participating in the last election in France and
over 100 parties in Italy. In England the break-up of coalition
government resulted in such party jealousy that each of the major
parties preferred to support a minority labor party rather than
accept defeat at the hands of each other. The result was a very
satisfactory temporary government in which the proletariat were
governing by and with the consent and advice of those more ex-
perienced. In Italy, dissatisfaction with a government which was
weakly compromising the communism, led to a popular demand for
strong government which would promote the national prestige
abroad and guarantee the suppression of class control at home.
The leader of fascism is apparently a dictator. As a matter of
fact, his power is only that delegated to him by a majority of the
people and his pedestal is as insecure as the temperament of
Italians is mercurial. Fascism governing through a responsible
dictatorship gave the Italians what they wanted and is more truly


  p. 1157 (#65)                       

1925)
1157
Armament by Exainple and Arbitration
representative of the Italian soul and body than an elected legis-
lature would be. Through Mussolini, Italy is bluntly and boldly
telling the world to beware of encroaching on Italian rights. A
revival of military spirit has accompanied the acquisition of power
by the people. The Italians, having no natural resources of their
own, are about to expand industrially and seek world markets.
They are planning to regain supremacy in the Mediterranean in
an attempt to revive the Pax Romana of 2,000 years ago and are
already cultivating friendly relations wherever possible in the
south of Europe. They are also showing a truculent attitude
toward such as seem inclined to check reasonable Italian aspira-
tions. Europe believes that the Italians will fight if they can't
get a square deal, and consequently Italy is getting one.
Diplomacy is no longer secret because the diplomats are no
longer responsible only to individuals in power no matter what
their credentials say. The premiers get together nowadays and
tell each other what the temper of their respective nations are and
what sort of diplomatic agreements can be ratified. Diplomats are
mouth pieces and little else. Their responsibility is now primarily
to the people of the nation they represent and their duty of a dis-
tinctly negative character in that they must do nothing to commit
their governments to anything which has not had the sanction of
legislation. Nor must they initiate anything or precipitate any
situation requiring legislation. Diplomacy now begins at home and
the voice of the people as heard in their own legislative halls is
the only safe guide for another people to listen to in formulating
foreign policy. Properly to interpret the will of the people from
what goes on in their parliament is probably the most important
duty an accredited minister has. To attempt to influence parlia-
mentary opinion directly or officially is probably the worst of
modern diplomatic crimes. Diplomats who work overtime at diplo-
macy now are soon recalled. When wars were more the result of
intrigue and non-national in character, it was important to know
just to what extent nationals as a whole would support such a war.
Since the World War it has become evident that war, when it
comes for any reason, will be supported by a whole nation with
every ounce of resource it has. Since the people themselves may be
expected to declare war in the future, it may be expected that they
will intend to prosecute it as a people. Not even a diplomat would


  p. 1158 (#66)                       

1158
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
be able to discover an ulterior motive behind a future declaration
of war. It will be evident from before the firing of the first gun
that a situation exists beyond the possibility of diplomatic help.
Two peoples will have decided that only the sword can bring a de-
cision, presumably after a genuine effort has been made to arbi-
trate. War, unless strictly localized, is bound to become such a
general nuisance to the rest of the world (since it has been found
impossible to preserve the rights of neutrals) that combatants will
probably be forced to discontinue their war by concerted action of
other nations hastily organized as a vigilance committee.
The very fact that a war must be popular in the future to receive
the support necessary to its successful prosecution makes arbitra-
tion much more likely to succeed in preventing war. It is unlikely
that a recourse to arms will ever again be popular enough to pre-
vent an acceptable decision by arbitration, unless the real casus
belli is inflamed racial antipathy. Arbitration seeks to effect a
stable settlement of international disputes though it is questionable
whether such settlement can include the removal of basic causes.
In effecting a stable settlement, the commission or court of arbi-
tration in session must take into consideration a number of factors
which have to do with the respective abilities of the contestants to
maintain such settlement. A disarmed nation should not be given
wealth or responsibilities that it cannot or will not protect, no
matter how theoretically just its cause may be. It is idle to give a
decision based on theoretical justice if it imposes impossible re-
sponsibilities and duties. An example of the sort of arbitration a
defeated country may expect was the decision to make a wholesale
transfer of nationals to their respective countries recently effected
Ly Turkey and Greece. Such a typically Oriental procedure, while
apparently strictly impartial and equally just, is, in effect, inter-
ference in legitimate personal and national liberty, which has for
its inspiration ulterior and illegitimate motives repugnant to mod-
ern civilization. This precedent is not likely to be followed in the
future.
With the passing of secret diplomacy and the advent of definite
national aims laid boldly on the table, it is possible to arbitrate with
some chance of success. Arbitration is necessarily a compromise.
If intelligent, it seeks to create stable conditions where trouble
exists. Stable conditions are secured when the most vital interests


  p. 1159 (#67)                       

1925)
1159
Armament by Example and Arbitration
are satisfied and the more temperamental and sentimental interest
involved are permitted to save face. Vital interests are those on
which a nation's foreign policy is based. Too general resort to
arbitration on comparatively trivial issues will tend to keep the big
issues "out of court” as these must be settled, not on technicalities,
but in a way which disposes of the issue involved. An inter-
national court of justice has very little “law” to work with in the
first place. The more it has to invoke, the more will its decisions
be technical and the less will it settle issues brought before it.
Upon what a court of arbitration must base its findings and de-
cision is the ability of the contestants to maintain amicable rela-
tions as a result of the decision. And here comes in the test of the
good faith of the contestants. Were a court of arbitration to base
its findings purely on theoretical justice to all nations considered
as equally responsible regardless of the mental equipment and
peculiar racial characteristics of the nationals, a direct invitation
to small and poorly governed nations to nurse extravagant preten-
tions and to bring them up for arbitration is offered.
Arbitration should be the final peaceful attempt to obtain a
mutually satisfactory settlement before war is considered to be
inevitable. When the vital character of the respective clashing
interests makes mutual adjustment impossible, then arbitration
should be invoked. Nations which cannot adjust their difficulties
between themselves must expect that adjustment by arbitration
will be somewhat in the interests of the rest of the world. As an-.
noyed neutrals, the rest of the world will be interested should ad-
justment fail and war result. It is nothing new in history or
government for individuals voluntarily to surrender individual
rights to a higher power in return for better protection in the exer-
cise of remaining individual rights. This is the basis of self gov-
ernment. It will be the basis of future peace and of future
international law and order. If arbitration is generally resorted
to as the final court of international appeal to which only the vital
issues are presented for settlement, and, if the decisions of such a
court are such as promote the general welfare in their execution,
a refusal to abide by such a decision, which results in war, will
automatically outlaw that war as aggressive and give ample author-
ity for a combination of neutral nations to suppress such war by
force, and this without in any way imposing on them the blame


  p. 1160 (#68)                       

1160
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
for starting general hostilities. It is only by making arbitration
representative of international welfare and by the enforcement of
its verdicts that aggressive war can be practically outlawed.
The awards of arbitration are bound to be disappointing to both
contestants where each have vital interests at stake. It will, how-
ever, be easier for one of the disputants to surrender claims in the
interests of world welfare than to surrender them at the bayonet's
point of an adversary and entirely in the interests of that adver-
sary. It is infinitely better to concede with a saved face than to
lose with a black eye. So long as the aggressor is free from inter-
ference by the rest of the world, so long will he discount either
losing or the black eye, and will go ahead to seek a decision by
war. Should arbitration show him the way out peacefully and he
refuse to take it, and should a decision to fight insure that he can
gain thereby only isolation and hard knocks, he will have nothing
to gain by war and everything to lose.
Assuming that arbitration will have its awards enforced, it can
so limit the scope of intelligent though belligerently inclined
people as to make war futile. However, arbitration must be an
appreciable and evident asset to the world in general if it is to
have the requisite international backing. Law is developed by
human beings for the safe conduct of mutual relations. Hence,
we have the policeman to prevent infractions of the law and to
insure its observance. International law is developed by inter-
national agreement for the protection of neutral and nonbelliger-
ent rights and for the conduct of war as humanely as possible.
Common law presupposes a state of peace which it seeks to pre-
serve. International law presupposes a state of war which it seeks
to ameliorate. Each seeks to limit the scope of prospective dis-
turbance, the policeman by the timely application of his prestige as
an agent of force or by the application of the force itself legally
at his disposal. International law has only its prestige to compel
observance, a prestige accumulated through centuries of warfare
in which humanity again and again has asserted itself. Certain
laws are fundamental in nature and are obeyed instinctively by all
peoples. The great majority of statutes are man-made to cover
particular weaknesses in government, society, or economic con-
ditions. As such, they require enforcement. International law,
though idealistic, is no less man-made and requires enforcement


  p. 1161 (#69)                       

1925)
Iібі
Armament by Example and Arbitration
if it is to be effective in a world of nations in which crowd psy-
chology is still likely to take charge in a warlike direction. Just as
international law is based on common agreement, so it must be en-
forced either by common action in support or by the establishment
of an international military force. An international army is dis-
pleasing to any responsible government. It is the essence of the
mercenary spirit and the forerunner of a world state with all the
communistic stagnation which that implies. Concerted action in
support of the awards of arbitration, forceful if necessary, is the
only possible and acceptable method in sight for the establishment
of international law as an instrument capable of outlawing
aggression.
In spite of what some theorists and pacifists say, peace is not
at present a normal state of society. It is, however, very necessary
that civilization should have the benefit of longer and longer
periods of peace if peace is to become normal. The virus of war
persists in a dormant state for several generations.
Peace, like law, must be practicable to be enforced. Like law,
it must be enforced for a period long enough to determine whether
public opinion will be converted into instinctive respect and support
of peace for peace's sake, or whether such peace as exists is found
to be imperfect and not entitled to further support. A peace
which is neither respected nor supported will not last long. There-
fore, peace terms must be as carefully considered as a commitment
to peace, as a declaration of war is a commitment to war. It is
much easier to keep the peace than it is to make peace, as actual
war distorts and inflames official and private judgment to such an
extent that in war time it becomes easier to continue war than to
make peace. Excessive peace-time armament is merely a symptom
of some cause for war for which conflict of unreasonable national
aspirations is responsible. Disarmament in peace time may
equally be considered a symptom of unhealthy conditions provoca-
tive of war. To prevent conflict of national aspirations is to pre-
vent war. That controlled armament in peace time is an aid in
the prevention of unreasonable national aspiration is almost ob-
vious. If armament be controlled by common agreement among
all nations capable of raising armies and building navies, peace is
practically assured, not by equality or ratios of military and naval
strength, but by the demonstration that the various nations can


  p. 1162 (#70)                       

1162
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
agree on anything so vital to each as their own national defense.
Unfortunately, this happy state of agreement and trust in each
other does not exist, though the Washington Treaty for the Limi-
tation of Armaments was a step in that direction. What does exist
at present is an inclination to outlaw unreasonable pretentions
which harbor the germ of war. There is no evidence, even in
religion, to prove that the world can outlaw war any more than it
can outlaw the weather. Either scheme is so absurdly imprac-
ticable that none but fanatics advocate such futility. The ability
and disposition to fight is inherent in man as a result of centuries
of physical struggles which have made him supreme among the
living things of the world. Fortunately, his reasoning power has
developed as fast as his fighting ability, though it has often been
submerged in vicious wars and prostituted to lethal ingenuity. The
very fact that reasoning power is now developing under the stimu-
lus of science and free from theological dogma at a rate unusual
in former generations, creates, simultaneously with an insight into
the causes of war, a foresight with which to prevent war. This
foresight is developing faster in Europe than it is in the United
States where foresight in international affairs has been stunted
by the rank growth of an isolation policy so long cultivated that
Americans are lazily content to subsist on peace much as a south
sea islander does on bananas. We have neither courted nor
caused wars through our international relations. We have always
fought more or less efficiently when war was thrust upon us. We
have never lost a war, principally because we were always either
plentifully supplied with allies or because we engaged some nation
considerably weaker than ourselves. We have never yet stood on
our two feet alone against a powerful foreign antagonist. We
have never done anything to foresee war, understand its causes,
or prevent war through attempts to understand our international
neighbors and their aspirations. We have never protected our-
selves from a possible war other than to isolate ourselves in hope
that the storm would blow over. We are again sniffing at approach-
ing storm clouds like cattle and turning our tails to the wind. Not
even the shepherd dogs in our Congress, Army and Navy can get
the herd in motion to a place of security. Europe is setting us an
example of "Armament by Example” which we would do well to
follow. Moreover, should Europe be convinced that we are again


  p. 1163 (#71)                       

1925]
1163
Armament by E.rample and Arbitration
sunk into Oriental dreams of pacifism and neglectful of the po-
tential strength of fighting man power we really possess, practically
the last check on another armament race abroad is removed. By
cooperating with Europe in an intelligent program of adequate
general armament based on the spirit and provisions of the 5-5-3
naval ratio, thereby demonstrating our intention to remain as
strong as the strongest, and by demonstrating our ability to out-
build and outarm any of them at short notice, we become a force
for peace with which every belligerently inclined nation must
reckon.
To have peace we must understand its responsibilities as well
as its benefits. We must tax ourselves and surrender certain
rights to independence of action just as we do when we establish
a government maintaining law and order. Peace is man-made,
man-maintained, and is the result of man's determination to have
peace. Man's method has been, is now, and perhaps ever will be,
to fight for what he gets, including peace, if he can't get it in any
other way. We must recognize this and prevent fighting by elim-
inating cause for it. Woman's way to get anything has always
been to work, to pray, or to argue for it. They are usually suc-
cessful, if clever, but in the final analysis, they can never over-
come their relative inferiority in fighting ability and therefore
never dare to trust a vital decision to battle. What else is pacifism
than this feminine fear of and exasperation with war? A pacifist
and most women are afraid of war for they know themselves to be
incompetents as fighters. They would emasculate their men in
the hope thereby of arousing such general hatred of war as would
feminize the world. There is little reason to hope that this ideal
state of negative virtue would produce peace. There are always
more things wanted than there are things not wanted by either
men or women, militarists or pacifists. It is the wanting of things
which causes conflict. Conflict results in war. Wants are relative
and can be controlled and directed by common counsel and by
common action, enforcement of reason, and by the threat of bloody
and certain defeat. Nations which want war are possessed of a
dangerous mania. We do not give a madman his way. We re-
strain him by force and administer his affairs in trust.
Peace which atrophies the will to fight is a dangerous and de-
generate peace for it destroys its own safeguards and jeopardizes


  p. 1164 (#72)                       

1164
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
its own existence. Peace is one of the things to be fought for from
time to time. It is but a relative state of conflict in which actual
sanguinary combat is suspended for the temporary exercise of
other competitive methods. When the competitive methods of
peace become unfair and wrongs are perpetrated, resort is had
again to fighting. There is no way to avoid fighting so long as un-
fairness and wrong are tolerated. Unfairness and wrong are also
relative. It is seldom the case that only one party to a disagree-
ment is wrong and the other right. Both are usually wrong if
there is disagreement, but one is more wrong than the other, de-
pending on which puts forth the more preposterous pretentions.
The maintenance of peace or rather of peaceful competition de-
pends absolutely on control of national aspirations and national
pretention within reasonable limits. If there is any better way to
control these causes for war than by making defeat certain for
any nation harboring them, neither history nor ethics have been
able to demonstrate it. In order to make defeat certain for trans-
gressors, there must exist the means for defeating them appor-
tioned among the nations of the world in a ratio which permits to
each nation adequate defense to hold off aggression until such time
as other nations sworn to enforce peace can bring the weight of
their armaments to bear in crushing the aggressor. Man learns
by experience. A few lessons of this sort demonstrating quick and
certain defeat will soon serve to make war unpopular. Such gen-
eral preparedness and common action, impossible without pre-
paredness, will reduce the cost of fighting to that of ordinary
insurance. It may be difficult to get the nations of the world to
agree to common action but it will be much easier to do so if they
have already agreed to limit their armaments and to maintain their
armaments at the agreed ratio. So long as each nation is free to
arm in accordance with its own unchecked ideas of its national
place in the sun or in accordance with its unwarranted fears, so
long will distrust of each other prevent cooperation in a common
cause.
Disarmament or neglect of armament simply transfers the bur-
den of waging war more directly to every man, woman and child
in the country. A defenseless nation has no right to remain un-
molested for it is a poor support in the international frame work
of general peace. A nation which refuses to maintain its pro-


  p. 1165 (#73)                       

1925)
1165
Armament by E.rample and Arbitration
portionate share of the burden of armaments and at the same time
to enjoy the privileges of peace enforced by the armament of other
nations is a cheat and a parasite besides being a potential source of
trouble which will cause additional armaments in other countries.
Adequate and proportionate armament is the bulwark behind which
a country is given the chance to mobilize when war is thrust upon
it. The better those bulwarks the better the mobilization possible,
the less waste of blood and treasure, and the more hopeless a task
for an aggressor to break through. A nation mobilized behind its
military and naval forces must be destroyed or let alone. To de-
stroy a nation so prepared is a moral and economic crime of which
no future nation or combination of nations will dare be guilty.
To despoil a pacifist nation unwilling to protect itself from aggres-
sion and willing only to enjoy peace without paying for it, is to
follow only the economic laws of man and the immutable law of
nature. It is not possible to destroy a pacifist people as the history
of the Hebrew race for 2,500 years can testify. It is possible to
prevent such people from governing themselves, however, and such
will be the fate of any people who count freedom and self govern-
ment of so little spiritual worth as not to be worth fighting for.
Such people are not even let alone but are herded from country
to country and from occupation to occupation like sheep-always a
problem, sometimes an asset, yet never welcome. How much bet-
ter to rest alertly and securely on one's arms, free to develop and
to practice the arts of peace under a national government congenial
to racial type and temperament.
“Disarmament by Example" is a state of mind. "Armament by
Example” is a state of security. Which will our grandchildren
prefer as a heritage?


  p. 1166 (#74)                       

“LEST WE FORGET”
By COMMODORE E. B. UNDERWOOD, U. S. Navy, RET.
TN MY younger years in the service, some forty or fifty years
1 ago, I used to hear a good deal about "Horse” Tyler and
"P.J." Miller, the former prominent for his dry remarks and
the latter noted as a teller of tall tales. Frequent mention of both
these worthies continued till I was well on into middle life, but
gradually they were quoted with less and less frequency and for a
great many years now I have scarcely heard their names men-
tioned. For a long time I looked to see such well known naval
characters put on record in some service publication, but if this
were ever done, it escaped me. Feeling that some account of the
two ought to be committed to the "permanency of print," I am
undertaking the job myself, although well aware that there are
some of the old timers still living better fitted for the work than
am I.
"HORSE" TYLER
"Horse" Tyler was Hanson R. Tyler, of the class of 1870,
U.S.N.A. I was with him for one year at the Naval Academy, but,
as I was a plebe, I knew him only by sight. He had a long, be-
nignant looking countenance, which characteristic, I have no doubt,
gained for him the name of “Horse.”
After my graduation in 1873, I never was associated with him
either afloat or ashore, though I met him, en passant, at rare inter-
vals. However, I, like everybody else, heard much about him.
He was at one time attached to the receiving ship at Boston, and
one of his shipmates there told me that he and “Horse" once went
to consult a well known Boston medium. When "Horse's” turn
came, the medium asked him with whom he would like to com-
municate, and "Horse” replied “Charlotte.” After several un-
successful attempts to make the connection, the medium said,
"Perhaps if the gentleman will give me the lady's full name, we
can do better," to which “Horse” solemnly replied, “Charlotte
Russe," and was very properly invited to leave the room.


  p. 1167 (#75)                       

1925]
1167
Lest Wc Forget
My informant also told me that the paymaster of the receiving
ship was one of the good natured kind who allowed “Horse” to
draw his pay every day, which shows that he always sailed close
to the wind. He was, however, always willing to contribute in a
small way, the only way possible, to any charitable cause, provided
he could sign for the amount and have it taken off the books! It
is to be inferred, then, that "Horse” was witty, improvident and
charitable. He was also convivial.
I can still remember one or two of the stories told about him.
One time when he was officer-of-the-deck, he had to hoist a piano
on board, about which he had evidently received precise instruc-
tions. He successfully accomplished the task, and just before land-
ing the instrument, he gave the unmusical order, “Teeth aft, boys,
teeth aft, slew her a bit !"
At another time he was attached to a ship, the commanding offi-
cer of which took great interest in a rain gauge that he had had
mounted on the starboard quarter of the ship. (The command-
ing officer, by the way was, if my memory does not play me false,
the late Adimral Sampson.) All of the watch officers had been
cautioned to give special care to this gauge. One night when
"Horse" was officer-of-the-deck, the ship got to rolling deeply.
Somebody had evidently cast off the spanker sheet, for the boom
made a full sweep to starboard, demolishing the gauge and knock-
ing part of it overboard. “Horse” called the orderly and directed
him to report the occurrence to the commanding officer, and then
he added the caution, “And break it to him gently, orderly, break
it to him gently!”
Poor old "Horse !" His customary salutation on taking a drink
with a friend was “Happy Days.” But his own happy days were
not so long as they should have been, for he began to break early.
In 1896, he was relegated to the retired list, and in 1900 he died,
being then only about fifty years of age. He is now little more
than a memory, a memory ever growing fainter and fainter.
“PL."
"P.J.” (Philip J. Miller) was a boatswain, who died about fifty
years ago. He was an efficient boatswain but not more so than
some of his fellows. Nevertheless, he was one of the best known


  p. 1168 (#76)                       

1168
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
officers of the Navy, and, as already intimated, his fame was based
on his ability as a teller of marvelous yarns.
I had a contact with him, for I made the summer practice cruise
in 1870, it was a foreign cruise, in the old sailing sloop-of-war
Savannah, of which he was boatswain. In the second dog watches
at sea, he generally had a large and attentive group of midshipmen
gathered around him listening to his yarns. I will say for him
that, barring a little profanity, he never told us anything dis-
reputable.
I know nothing of “P.J.'s" early history, but I know that he
received his warrant as boatswain in 1856, and I presume that to
get it he traveled the enlisted route as was customary then and I
believe is still so. I know not what duty fell to his lot during the
Civil War, but I am sure that such duty was faithfully and patri-
otically performed. As already intimated, I first made his acquaint-
ance in 1870.
"P.J.'s” yarns were always of a laughter-provoking nature and
they generally had a nautical flavor. An analysis of them would,
I think, show three leading characteristics—gross exaggeration,
great detail, and a modicum of profanity. And now for a few of
his yarns, or yarns about him.
Once when “P.J." was attached to one of our ships on the China
Station, the Prince of Wales, then making a tour around the world,
remained in a certain port for several days visiting his brother, the
Duke of Edinburgh, who was in the English Navy and attached to
a ship on that station. One evening "P.J.," who had been ashore,
returned to the ship with a bundle under his arm. The officer-
of-the-deck happening to ask what he had there, received the in-
formation that he had been to call on his friend, the Prince of
Wales, who had given him a cashmere shawl to take home to Mrs.
Miller. Saying this he started to step over the hatch coaming in
order to descend the ladder, and the motion dislodging his pack-
age, it fell to the deck and opened, disclosing two dried codfishes.
These "P.J." gathered up and fled below in great confusion. An
account of this occurrence was evidently conveyed by "P.J.'s"
captain to the Prince of Wales, through the Duke of Edinburgh.
The next day when the Prince returned the call the captain had
made on him, after greeting the captain, he appeared to look cas-
ually around and catching sight of "P.J.” with his whistle in his


  p. 1169 (#77)                       

1925]
пбу
Lest We Forget
hand, stepped up to him and with great cordiality, said, “Why,
Mr. Miller, I am delighted to see you again.” It was reported
that, for once in his life, “P.J.” was so embarrassed that he could
not utter a word.
"P.J." used to tell of an occasion when he was making a cruise
with Admiral and Mrs. Farragut, in the frigate Franklin, if mem-
ory serves. A strong gale was blowing and the admiral was on
the poop with his storm clothes on. When "P.J." related the story,
he used to say, “Pretty soon he saw me getting up the preventer
braces, and he immediately went below. When he reached the
cabin, Mrs. Farragut remarked, 'Why, Dave, I thought you never
came below in this kind of weather. To which the Admiral re-
plied, 'I saw “P.J." on deck, and I knew there was no need for us
both to be there. The next day when the gale had blown itself
out and everything had quieted down Mrs. Farragut sent for me
to come to the cabin and when I got there she said, 'I want to thank
you, "P.J." for the way you are looking out for the admiral and
me, and if you will go and get me a bottle, I will fill it with attar
of roses that I want you to take home to Mrs. Miller. I went be-
low to the dispensary and got the smallest sized bottle they had and
returned with it to the cabin. On seeing it, Mrs. Farragut said,
""P.J.," what's that you have in your hand ?' I replied, 'That's the
bottle for the attar of roses.' She took it from me and tossed it
out of the port, saying, 'To hell with that, "P.J."; now go and get
a real bottle.' I went below and got an old whiskey bottle and
took it to her. On seeing it, she said, “That is something like,' and
reaching under a transom, she pulled out a five-gallon jimmy-john
of attar of roses, and, filling my bottle, handed it to me saying,
'Now take that home and give it to Mrs. Miller, with my love.'”
I will now add two short yarns of “P.J.'s." These are prob-
ably not his best, but I give them because their authenticity is un-
doubted, they having staid with me since the old Savannah days
of 1870.
The ship to which “P.J." was attached was anchored in from
five to six fathoms of water, with thirty fathoms of chain out, the
day was windless, and, as it was between tides, the ship was riding
to a slack chain. Suddenly a furious wind squall burst upon the
ship from right ahead, causing her to tauten out her chain and


  p. 1170 (#78)                       

1170
[July
Ü. S. Naval İnstitute Proceedings
bring up on her anchor with such force as not only to trip it, but,
in addition, to throw it high in air, and in coming down it landed
on the fore topsail yard and jammed there, giving "P.J." great
difficulty when he came to send it down.
Again, he was in a ship at sea, with a gale blowing up stronger
and stronger. The executive officer had taken the deck and got
the topsails close reefed and the storm sails set, when a stronger
blast of wind than usual blew one of the crew overboard and he
was lost, the sea being much too heavy to lower a boat in. The
executive, maintaining himself with much difficulty on the horse
block, gave the order for all hands to crouch below the weather
rail, where they would be out of the wind. This was done and
shortly thereafter an unusual noise was heard to windward, when,
in the words of "P.J.," "Curiosity got the better of the starboard
mainmastman, no, I'm a g-d-liar, it was the captain of the port
watch of afterguard, and he stuck his head above the rail, and just
at that moment an extraordinary hard gust of wind took him in the
face and blew every last one of his teeth down his throat, so that
ever after the broad of his back looked like he'd had the small-
pox!”
After leaving the Savannah I lost sight of “P.J." till toward the
end of 1875, when the Hartford, which had been our flagship in
China, came home through the Mediterranean, picking up a num-
ber of midshipmen, of whom I was one, due for examination for
promotion. I then learned that “P.J.” had been the Hartford's
boatswain and had died suddenly, probably from apoplexy, when
the ship was at Hong Kong the previous June. I should say that
he could not have been over forty-five years old when he died. He
was buried in the foreign cemetery at Hong Kong and the officers
and enlisted men of the Hartford united in putting up a suitable
stone over his grave. There should have been graven on it, and
no doubt in life "P.J." would not have objected, the couplet that
I have seen in Westminster Abbey on the stone in honor of one of
the old English poets—Gay, isn't it?-- which couplet is said to
have been composed by himself. It runs
Life is a jest and all things show it
I thought so once and now I know it.


  p. 1171 (#79)                       

1925)
1171
Lest We Forget
Last December, I saw a home-made Christmas card to "one An-
cient Mariner from Another." This is part of the versification
thereon:
Gone are “Horse" Tyler and likewise “P. J.,"
Whose yarns and sayings we thought O.K.,
They're off the stage, their day is o'er,
And we shall see their like no more.
That we are still here
Is our Christmas cheer.
The assertion that "we shall see their like no more" is un-
doubtedly true. Each of them was sui generis, and we shall not
see their equivalents, nor will the generations that come after us
see them.


  p. 1172 (#80)                       

THE GAS MASK AND THE NEXT,WAR
By Lieut. COMDR. DUNCAN C. WALTON (MC), U. S. Navy
TP TO the time of the World War but little attention was
paid to gas masks. A few commercial companies had de-
vised crude apparatus for the use of employees who might
be accidently exposed to injurious gases during certain industrial
processes, but these masks were usually designed to protect against
one gas only and the protection afforded was only intended to last
for a short period. But with the development of chemical war-
fare, from its introduction in 1915 to the end of the war the prob-
lem of the gas mask assumed tremendous importance, and many
of the best scientists of the warring nations devoted their full
energies to the development of better protection for their troops.
How highly succes 'ey were we shall see later.
But this very success has led to an unfortunate situation.
Following the war many statements were issued by the various war
ministries extolling the virtues of their gas masks and in almost
all instances these statements claimed that their masks protected
against all gases. In addition to the above an unfortunate popular
misconception of the value of the gas mask arose from the methods
used during the war in training personnel in the use of the gas
mask. In order that the men should have complete confidence in
their masks and use them on every occasion when gas was present
they were assured that the gas masks protected against any and
all “war-gases.” This was true, as the gases likely to be used
were all known, and as new agents were introduced the mask was
modified to meet the new danger. But with the Armistice a large
number of men were returned to civilian life and permitted to
take their gas masks. They also took with them the idea that the
gas mask was infallible. A considerable number of accidents then
occurred from these men wearing their masks in emergencies
which the masks were never intended to protect against such as
fires in closed compartments and buildings, fumigation accidents,
accidents in closed spaces in which for some reason the oxygen


  p. 1173 (#81)                       

1925]
1173
The Gas Mosk and the Next War
content of the atmospheric air was reduced below the safety point,
enormous concentrations of lethal gases in chemical fires, etc.
In addition to these accidents in civilian life a small number of
accidents have occurred in the public services from men wearing
the masks into poisonous atmospheres against which the gas mask
was not intended to protect. As a result a slight distrust of the
masks has arisen among some of the personnel, and the intro-
duction of proper gas discipline is impossible unless the personnel
has full confidence in its masks.
A lack of confidence in the mask arising from the above causes
can be easily swept away by any competent gas officer but there
exists at present a more serious cause for popular doubts as to the
efficacy of the war mask. This cause can be found in the "Next
War Fairy-tale." This fairy-tale has been popular for ages and
has varied from time to time with the progress of science and the
parallel progress of the weapons of war. Since 1918, however,
the fairy-tale has taken a new form, and, curiously enough, stuck
to it with a few minor modifications. It can be found frequently
in the Sunday supplements of the yellowr n als and quite fre-
quently in the weekly magazines. In these chevry efforts to peer
into the future the usual sequence of events is as follows. Nations
A and B decide to go to war. A's forces make certain prepara-
tions, using methods which indicate that they richly deserve what
they are shortly going to get, for the higher command appears to
have fallen into the hands of morons. In the midst of these
preparations a B force of hundreds of thousands of airplanes,
miraculously gathered over-night (like Bryan's army) appears,
sweeps away the pitiful resistance of A's planes and then proceeds
systematically to bomb A's forces and cities. In this bombing a .
“mysterious” new gas is always used, a gas that instantly pierces
A's gas masks and causes the immediate death of all exposed. In
some of these stories the gas is released from myriads of tanks
or submarines, whose existence no one had suspected. But in all
cases such factors as weight of gas, distance or weather, never
seem to have any effect on either the clever B or his super-gas.
Now probably ninety-nine out of one hundred readers skim
through these next-war stories and let it go at that. The hundredth
very often is an army or navy officer and the constant reiteration of
this mask-piercing gas myth worries him. And he begins to ask,


  p. 1174 (#82)                       

1174
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
“What use are these gas masks and the constant drills in their use
if in the next war they won't stop a new gas?” This question
brings us at once to the subject matter of this article. What is
a gas mask? How does it work and what principles make it work?
What old or as yet undiscovered gases can pierce it and what are
the reasonable chances of such gases being produced and put over
in a future war? Before the year 1915 gas masks were used to a
limited extent in certain industries. They were of very simple
construction, generally consisting of metallic or rubber facepiece
covering the mouth and nose, this facepiece containing a sponge
or pad saturated with alkaline chemicals if an acid gas was to be
guarded against, or acid chemicals if an alkaline gas such as
ammonia were present. In other industries such as stone-cutting,
cement-works and certain processes of the cotton trade simple dust
filters were provided to protect the lungs from irritant particles in
the inspired air.
Practically all advances in the gas mask date from the intro-
duction of modern gas warfare which occurred on April 22, 1915,
when the Germans delivered the first chemical attack of modern
times. Chlorine was the gas used and the casualties were about
5,000 men; sixty guns were lost, which at that time was an
enormous loss to the Allies. The gas used was quickly identified by
the Allies and measures adopted to guard against future attacks.
Following an appeal by Lord Kitchener the women of England
in twenty-four hours turned out 100,000 pad masks consisting of
five or six layers of flannel or cotton wrapped in muslin. These
pads were to be soaked in a solution of sodium carbonate and
sodium thiosulphate (hypo) just prior to use and were fastened
over the mouth and nose. The chemicals gave excellent protection
for a limited time, but the shape of the mask was poor, and it
required frequent wetting. It was replaced by the black veil
respirator, which consisted of a length of black veiling containing
a pad saturated with a solution of sodium carbonate, hypo, and
glycerin. The glycerin kept the pad moist by its hygroscopic
properties and also prevented freezing. While this was an im-
provement over the first device the shape was not satisfactory,
leaving passageways for gas down the side of the nose. It was
therefore replaced by a flannel helmet with celluloid eye-pieces,
dipped in the same solution as the black veil respirator. No


  p. 1175 (#83)                       

1925)
1175
The Gas Mask and the Next War
sooner had this helmet been issued than it was discovered that
the Germans intended to use a gas, Phosgene, (COC1.,), ten times
more toxic than chlorine and much more difficult to protect against.
The Intelligence Department of the British Army by a remark-
able piece of work were able to report in July, 1915, not only that
the Germans were going to use phosgene but to give the date,
December, 1915, and the sector, Messines Ridge, in which it was
to be used. It became at once necessary to devise means of pro-
tection against this expected attack, and the helmet was further
modified. In fact from July, 1915, up to the present the develop-
ment of the gas mask is comparable to the development of armor
against ordnance; as the use of new chemical agents was either
expected or actually occurred the mask was modified again and
again until the present highly efficient but by no means final form
has been achieved.
To resume, the British prepared for the expected phosgene
attack by dipping their helmets in a new solution consisting of
caustic soda, carbolic acid, and glycerine. An excess of caustic
soda was used, which gave protection against chlorine and some
protection against hydrocyanic acid, the possible introduction of
the latter into warfare being greatly feared at that time. The
caustic soda combined with the carbolic acid to form sodium
phenolate which neutralized, and so protected, against phosgene.
Although the protection given by this helmet was good, and it
saved many lives, it was found that the protection against phosgene
could be improved by the addition of hexamethylene tetramine
(urotropin) to the dipping solution, and this was done. These
helmets did not protect against tear gases and it was necessary
to wear goggles which fitted the skin tightly under the helmet when
in the presence of lachrymatory gases.
The French during this period of the war were using a mask
known as the M2. It consisted of a number of layers of cloth
saturated with a solution very similar to the British mixture with
the addition of nickel sulphate, castor oil and alcohol. This mask
was used by some French troops and by British labor battalions
up to the time of the Armistice.
The early German respirators were pads similar to the early
British pads. They were soon replaced by snout shaped impreg-


  p. 1176 (#84)                       

1176
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
nated cloths which fitted over the mouth and nose and were fairly
efficient.
By the winter of 1915 a number of gases were in use. The
chemists of all warring nations were bending their energies to the
development and production of newer and deadlier compounds,
and those responsible for the designing of gas masks saw that
cloth helmets and pads were doomed, for it was impossible to
continue indefinitely the addition of more and more layers of cloth
impregnated with a sufficient variety of chemicals to neutralize
the infinite number of gases that might be employed, and at the
same time to add enough of each chemical to resist an overwhelm-
ing concentration of any one gas, as the mask would become so
thick that it would be impossible to breathe through it. Therefore,
the gas defense laboratories of the warring nations were compelled
to consider other means of protection, and in all countries the
solution of the problem was fundamentally the same. This solu-
tion consisted in the use of a gas proof facepiece to which was
attached—either directly or by means of a long hose—a canister
containing a mixture of a gas absorbent and a gas neutralizant.
When examined superficially there appear to be as many
different war-masks as there have been designers, but as said
before they are all based on the same principles. No effort will
be made here to consider the different facepieces in use. They are
constantly being modified with a view to affording better vision
and greater comfort, and facepiece designing is a science in
itself. Provided that the facepiece fits properly and is impermeable
to gases, it cannot affect the question of the penetrability of the
gas mask which will then depend altogether on the efficiency of
the canister.
In all the later war canisters the principal absorbent is activated
charcoal in granular form, and in most of them other chemical
granules are added. In the American canisters the second com-
ponent is known as soda lime. But there is a third indispensable
component of the canister. During the early years of the war the
chemical agents used were all put over in gaseous or in vapor
form. In an effort to pierce the allied masks the Germans in
June, 1917, began the use of smokes and toxic solids. These
smokes passed readily through the canister and could only be re-
moved by a mechanical filter. Such filters were soon devised and


  p. 1177 (#85)                       

1925)
1177
The Gas Mask and the Next War
consisted of paper, Turkish toweling, or cellulose pads attached to
the canister in such a way that the inspired air was forced to pass
through it, and in its passage all solid particles were mechanically
filtered out. As many of the toxic smoke particles were infinitely
small this filter had to be of a very fine weave which greatly in-
creased the breathing resistance and made the canister bulky. The
filter was therefore made wider and built into the canister, layers
of paper and Turkish toweling being placed in the bottom of the
canister in addition to the charcoal and soda lime. It was later
found that felt filters were much superior to either toweling or
paper, and felt filters replaced the earlier types in the American
masks.
The above paragraphs narrate briefly the history of the canister
up to the latter part of 1918. Before discussing the protective
value of the present mask and the probable lines along which its
future development may take place it would be well to consider
just what is desired in a canister. These requirements are as
follows:
1. The canister should be as small as possible.
2. The canister should not be fragile. It will have to stand
many hard knocks.
3. The resistance to breathing through the canister should be
as low as possible. Men exercising violently require a large amount
of air and any obstruction produces a sensation of choking. In no
instance should the resistance be over two inches of water at the
normal breathing rate. Very fine mesh granules increase the ab-
sorbent surface opposed to the gas, but increase the breathing re-
sistance unduly, if the layer is deep. In general, it may be said that
large cross-sectional shallow areas of fairly fine granules give
the best results.
4. The canister must remove from the inspired air all toxic
smoke and vapors used as chemical agents in warfare.
5. The absorbent must possess high activity—must purify the
air quickly and thoroughly. A man when exercising inhales about
sixty liters of air a minute. As inspiration occupies about half
a breathing cycle the air must pass through the canister at a rate
of about 100 liters per minute. Considering the size of the present
canister a given portion of the inspired air is only in contact with
the absorbent for about 0.1 of a second, which is a very brief


  p. 1178 (#86)                       

1178
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
space of time in which to purify it thoroughly. This purification
must be very thorough for while the concentration of a gas that
enters the canister may be as high as one half per cent, a leakage
of 0.001 per cent of chlorine would cause serious discomfort and
even smaller amounts would cause injury in the case of other more
toxic gases. The present canister does this removal very
effectively and with a large margin of safety. For example it
will reduce a concentration of 7,000 parts chlorpicrin per million
of air to less than 0.5 parts per million in less than 0.03 seconds.
It is particularly important that any naval canister should have
a high activity as chemical shells bursting in a closed compartment
aboard ship would set up much higher concentration of gas than
is possible in the field.
6. Absorptive capacity. In the field it is impracticable fre-
quently to replace canisters, so the canister must have a long life.
Therefore the canister must be able to absorb low concentrations
of gas over a long period of time—weeks or months—and still be
able to meet an attack with a higher concentration. This feature
is of less importance in naval practice where extra canisters can
be carried on board and issued as required. Another necessary
quality for an absorbent is that it must bind the gas firmly. Many
absorbents take up gases but do not hold them tenaciously and as
breathing through the canister continues, small amounts are re-
leased. The result would be the inhalation of a low concentration
of the toxic gas, which would prove disabling if continued for any
length of time.
7. Versatility. In factory practice it is customary to use a
canister designed especially for the one gas to be met with. Ob-
viously in military practice only one canister can be used and it
must be active against all known chemical agents and should have
qualities that will give protection against possible new and unknown
gases.
8. The absorbent must have great mechanical strength. The
cans will be constantly jostled about and weak granules would
break down and form finer particles and dust.
9. Canisters are often kept in storage for years before issue,
and after issue large quantities of air containing moisture, carbon
dioxide and toxic materials may be breathed in for months. The
absorbent must therefore possess marked chemical stability, that is


  p. 1179 (#87)                       

1925]
1179
The Gas Mask and the Ne.rt War
the components must not react with each other chemically, they
should not be easily oxidized, or affected by carbon dioxide and
should not contain any hygroscopic substance that would cause the
absorbent to become a pasty mass where air of high humidity is
breathed. It must not disintegrate after exposure to any of the
ordinary war gases and must not corrode either its container or
the smoke-filter.
10. When it is recalled that the English manufactured
16,000,000 masks during the war it can be seen that the canister
must be capable of easy manufacture from materials readily ob-
tainable in war time, and must be fairly cheap.
This is a formidable list of requirements to be met and it has
only been met by making certain sacrifices. In the case of soda
lime a certain amount of absorptive activity and capacity has to be
sacrificed in order to add binders which will give the necessary
strength. Other very desirable absorbents cannot be used at all
as they break down in moist air.
Charcoal is the only substance which approximately fulfills all
the requirements. When treated by special processes it becomes
"activated charcoal" which has, in brief, the following remarkable
properties.
It is very active, for the velocity with which it removes an easily
absorbable gas from an air stream passed over it is very high. It
is cheap and can be obtained in large quantities, especially if coal
is used as the raw material for its production. Charcoal has a very
high absorptive capacity, samples having been made in the
laboratory which will absorb more than their own weight of gas.
It is very stable chemically, carbon dioxide does not affect it and
while high humidity causes a decrease in its absorptive power this
is not due to any chemical change. Its versatility is remarkable
as it adsorbs practically all gases or vapors. This adsorption is
slight in the case of permanent gases, but none of them are highly
toxic. Unfortunately a few very volatile toxic gases such as arsine
and cyanogen chloride are not well handled by charcoal alone, but
these are disposed of by the mixture of charcoal and soda lime.
A granule of activated charcoal may be compared to a sponge,
as can other absorbent granules such as metallic oxides and silica
gels. They all contain an enormous number of capillary pores
which give a very large surface to which gases can adhere. It has


  p. 1180 (#88)                       

1180
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
been calculated that one c.c. of activated charcoal would contain
about 1,000 square centimeters of surface. The molecules of gas are
attracted to the surface of the carbon and firmly held, probably
first in a layer one molecule of gas deep, and in the case of carbon
this layer is held much more firmly than on oxides or adsorbent
gels. As more gas is adsorbed by the charcoal the layers of gas
molecules become deeper, and the outer portion of the gas layer is
held less firmly and begins to exert an appreciable vapor tension.
This second and third layer adsorption gradually passes to a third
kind of adsorption which exerts even higher vapor pressures. This
more loosely held gas is merely held by condensation in the fine
capillaries.
In general, the degree to which gases adsorb on substances runs
parallel to their boiling points, or more exactly to their critical
temperatures. For example, if a given sample of charcoal adsorbs
a certain amount of hydrogen it will adsorb five times as much
carbon monoxide which has a critical temperature 100° higher,
and 200 times as much ammonia which has a critical temperature
270° higher still.
There are certain exceptions to the rule, argon being one. And
even among substances with high critical temperatures and which
are readily adsorbed, when compared among themselves they show
irregularities in the firmness with which they are bound. In
general the more reactive gases are more firmly bound, indicating
that specific chemical forces between the charcoal and the gas aid
in the action of the adsorbent.
If a gas is adsorbed on charcoal and then another gas which
is more strongly adsorbed is passed over, a portion of the first gas
may be displaced, and usually a gas of high boiling point will
displace a gas of low boiling point previously adsorbed. When a
mixture of gases is passed over, the partial pressures of the two
gases will largely determine to what extent each will be adsorbed.
Naturally, if the charcoal is saturated with a strongly adsorbed
gas, another gas less strongly adsorbed will soon pass through the
layer, provided it is not soluble in the first gas in which case the
charcoal will adsorb more of the mixture than it will of either gas
separately.
Charcoal adsorbs moisture very rapidly, but gives it up very
easily when exposed to dry air. In this way the moisture of the


  p. 1181 (#89)                       

1925)
1181
The Gas Mask and the Next War
charcoal in the canister soon adjusts itself, and the charcoal is
soon as active as ever; while the moisture is present the adsorptive
power is reduced to a certain extent except against ammonia and
gases very soluble in water.
But while the adsorptive power of the charcoal is decreased, its
chemical activity against many gases is increased by water. Char-
coal can act as a catalyst and accelerates a number of reactions.
Its action is so marked in this respect that there are but few gases
which it does not decompose to some extent. Chlorine is partially
hydrolyzed by moist charcoal to hydrochloric acid, arsine is
oxidized in small amounts. In the case of phosgene the charcoal
catalyzes it into hydrochloric acid gas and carbon dioxide. If the
charcoal is moist the hydrochloric acid goes into solution in the
water present and is retained. However, if too much moisture is
present the charcoal capillaries and surface become merely a
water film, rather than an adsorbent and catalytic surface, and
while some of the phosgene is retained and hydrolyzed the bulk of
it breaks through immediately.
It has been seen that while charcoal acts to a limited extent
chemically and as a catalyst, its principal value comes from its
adsorptive power, so the greater surface it has the better adsorbent
it will be. In activated charcoal one-half its volume consists of
capillary pores, extremely minute in size, their average diameter
being about 5 X 107 cm. The walls of these capillaries must be
of amorphous carbon and great care is taken in the manufacturing
process that the carbon does not become of a graphitic character,
which is much less adsorptive than the amorphous. These walls
must also be cleared of any of the hydrocarbons left on them by
the first charring of the materials; the hydrocarbons consisting
of various oils, resins, etc., form a coating on the carbon which
interferes with its adsorptive activity. The requirements for the
manufacture of an active charcoal are: (1) It must have a high
and fine grained porosity. (2) It must consist of amorphous base
carbon. (3) It must be free from adsorbed hydrocarbons.
There are now several satisfactory methods of manufacture
which produce an excellent activated charcoal, the best being pro-
duced from the carbon from cocoanut shells. At the present time
most of the research work in this field is being devoted to the
development of activated charcoal from coal. Some of the samples


  p. 1182 (#90)                       

1182
[July
U. S. Naval İnstitute Proceedings
produced compare very favorably with the best cocoanut charcoal.
Although charcoal is a remarkable absorbent for most gases it
does not completely satisfy all the requirements, its deficiencies
being as follows: (1) Hydrocyanic acid, phosgene, and other
volatile gases are adsorbed only up to a certain extent. (2) Some
gases are best handled by oxidation and charcoal will not do this
by itself. (3) The gases in charcoal being held almost entirely
by adsorption, they exert a continuous slight vapor pressure and
show a tendency to be given off to the passing air. This is only
true if any considerable amount of gas has been taken up.
These deficiencies in charcoal make the use of an additional
absorbent necessary and this has been done by the use of an
alkaline oxidizing agent, soda lime, sprayed with sodium per-
manganate. These granules hold acid gases in a firm chemical
combination and rapidly oxidize easily oxidizable gases. In the
case of certain gases such as phosgene what occurs is that the gas,
at first adsorbed by the charcoal, is next slowly given up to the
soda-lime granule, which leaves the charcoal free to pick up the
next gas. Thus the soda lime reinforces the action of the charcoal,
acting as a permanent reservoir for the storage of certain gases.
Furthermore, in the case of phosgene it has been seen that the
charcoal hydrolyzes it to hydrochloric acid gas in the presence of
moisture, the charcoal acting as a catalyst. Hydrochloric acid is
very volatile and is not well held by the charcoal and so would
pass through if not held by the soda lime which readily seizes
large quantities of it.
Charcoal and soda lime also balance each other as follows:
when charcoal is heated it tends to give up a certain amount of its
adsorbed gases, and also adsorbs incoming gases much less readily.
The reverse is true of soda lime, which becomes more active with
an increase in the temperature, and so counterbalances the loss in
efficiency of the charcoal. The same is true of high humidity. As
the humidity increases the charcoal becomes slightly less efficient
against most gases, while soda lime becomes more effective.
Fries and West have furnished the following excellent de-
scription of soda lime:
The development of a satisfactory soda lime was a difficult problem.
The principal requirements follow: Its activity is not of vital importance,
as the charcoal is able to take up gas with extreme rapidity and then later


  p. 1183 (#91)                       

1925)
1183
The Gas Mask and the Nert l'ar
give it off more slowly to the soda lime. Absorptive capacity is of the
greatest importance, since the soda lime is relied upon to hold in chemical
combination a very large amount of toxic gas. Both chemical stability
and mechanical strength are difficult to attain. The latter had never been
solved until the war made some solution absolutely imperative.
Composition of Regular Army Soda Lime.—The exact composition of
the army soda lime has undergone considerable modification from time to
time as it has been found desirable to change the raw materials or the
method of manufacture. A rough average formula which will serve to
bring out the interrelation between the different constituents is as follows:
Composition of Wet Mix
Per cent
Hydrated lime ....
Cement .............
14
Kieselguhr .......
Sodium hydroxide ...
Water ......
33 (approx.)
After Drying
Moisture content
8 (approx.)
After Spraying
Moisture content ...........
......... 13 (approx.)
Sodium permanganate content ........................... 3 (approx.)
Within limits, the method of manufacture is more important than the
composition or other variables, and has been the subject of a great deal of
research work even on apparently minor details. The process finally adopted
consists essentially in making a plastic mass of lime, cement, kieselguhr,
caustic soda, and water, spreading in slabs on wire-bottomed trays, allowing
to set for two or three days under carefully controlled conditions, drying,
grinding, and screening to 8-14 mesh, and finally spraying with a strong
solution of sodium permanganate with a specially designed spray nozzle.
The spraying process is a recent development, most of the soda lime having
been made by putting the sodium permanganate into the original wet mix.
Many difficulties had to be overcome in developing the spraying process, but
it eventually gave a better final product, and resulted in a large saving of
permanganate which was formerly lost during drying, etc.
Function of Different Components
Lime.—The hydrated lime furnishes the backbone of the absorptive prop-
erties of the soda lime. It constitutes over fifty per cent of the finished dry
granule and is responsible in a chemical sense for practically all the gas
absorption.
Cement.-Cement furnishes a degree of hardness adequate to withstand
service conditions. It interferes somewhat with the absorptive properties of
the soda lime and it is an open question whether the gain in hardness pro-
duced by its use is valuable enough to compensate for the decreased ab-
sorption which results.


  p. 1184 (#92)                       

1184
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Kieselguhr.-The loss in absorptive capacity due to the presence of
cement is in part counterbalanced by the simultaneous introduction of a
relatively small weight though considerable bulk, of kieselguhr. In some
cases, there seems to be a reaction between the lime and the kieselguhr,
which results in some increase in hardness.
Sodium Hydroxide.-Sodium hydroxide has two primary functions in the
soda lime granule. In the first place, a small amount serves to give the
granule considerably more activity. The second function is to maintain
roughly the proper moisture content. This water content (roughly thirteen
to fourteen per cent after spraying) is very important, in order that the
maximum gas absorption may be secured.
Sodium Permanganate.—The function of the sodium permanganate is to
oxidize certain gases, such as arsine, and to act as an assurance of protec-
tion against possible new gases. The purity of the sodium permanganate
solution used was found to be one of the most important factors in making
stable soda lime. It was, therefore, necessary to work out special methods
for its manufacture. Two such methods were developed, and successfully
put into operation.
Careful selection of other material is also necessary, and this phase of
the work contributed greatly to the final development of the form of soda
lime.
While the percentage of the components of soda-lime is of great im-
portance, the method of manufacture is even more important. Slow
setting and drying in thick slabs, followed by grinding in such a way as to
produce the maximum amount of freshly broken surface on the granules
will produce a highly active granule.
The proportion of charcoal and soda lime to each other varies
in different types of canister. A very common type of canister
filling consists of charcoal sixty per cent and soda-lime forty per
cent.
The third air purifying component of the canister, the smoke
filter, has passed through a long developmental stage and is still
susceptible of great improvement. At first cotton pads were used,
but as methods of generating toxic smokes improved with the
result that very fine particles of the irritant smokes were released,
it was found that these pads did not purify the air sufficiently.
Thin creped wood pulp papers were tried, alternating with layers
of toweling. It was found that the pores in the paper were uneven
and the large pores permitted smoke particles to pass through.
An attempt was made to overcome this by having from forty to
eighty layers of paper, in the hopes that none of the large pores
would correspond in position. With the continual improvement in
toxic smokes it was seen in this country that the protection afforded


  p. 1185 (#93)                       

1925]
1185
The Gas Mask and the Next War
by the paper filters was not sufficient and felt was adopted as a
filtering material. This is very successful but very costly, and
the supply of felt during war-time is limited. The present filter
will remove even the finest particles from air passing through it.
This is accomplished by having a very finely meshed filter.
Naturally this finely meshed filter offers great obstruction to the
passage of air, and such a filter if incorporated in one of the older
canisters would cause too great obstruction to breathing. This
has been overcome in the present canister by wrapping the filter
all around the inner canister, which gives a much greater surface
for the air to pass through and so diminishes the resistance to
respiration. Probably the greatest obstacle to the development of
a smaller and more compact canister lies in this problem of air
resistance from the filter. If a filter could be developed, which
while of smaller cross-sectional area would still remove even the
smallest particles, and yet at the same time cause no greater ob-
struction to breathing than the present filter does, it would be
possible markedly to reduce the size of the present canister.
It has been shown that the present canister contains three purify-
ing components: charcoal, soda-lime and the filter. The following
classification, from the Chemical Warfare Textbook, Vol. 3, shows
what part of the canister is most active in absorbing the best known
war gases of the present time.
Gas
Principal Absorbent in Canister
Arsine.
. Charcoal-soda lime mixture
Arsenic trichloride ..... . Smoke filter and charcoal-soda lime mixture
Bensyl bromide ..............Charcoal
Brombenzylcyanide ..........Charcoal
Bromcyanogen ....... Charcoal
Chloracetone .............
..Charcoal
Chloracetophenone ...... . Smoke filter and charcoal
Chlorine ...............
.Charcoal-soda lime mixture
Chlorpicrin .............
.Charcoal
Cyanogen chloride ...........Charcoal
Diphenylchlorarsine ..........Smoke filter
Diphenylomine chlorarsine ... Smoke filter
Diphosgene (Perchlormethyl-
chlorformate) ........... Charcoal-soda lime mixture
Hydrocyanic acid .............Charcoal-soda lime mixture
Methyldichlorarsine .........Charcoal-soda limę mixture
Mustard gas ............6 ...Charcoal
........


  p. 1186 (#94)                       

1186
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Perchlormethylmercaptan .... Charcoal
Phosgene ......... .....Charcoal-soda lime mixture
Thiophosgene ........ ......Charcoal-soda lime mixture
Xylyl bromide ........ ......Charcoal
It is seen that in many cases the charcoal and soda lime both act
against a gas, reinforcing each other's action. It can also be seen
that the smokes (diphenylchlorarsine and diphenylamine chlorar-
sine) never reach the interior of the canister, being mechanically
stopped by the filter. In general the table shows that acid gases
are largely handled by the soda lime, reinforced by the charcoal,
and that the more stable and more complex substances are absorbed
by the charcoal alone. Furthermore, it can be seen that even after
an extensive attack with one chemical the canister is still perfectly
able to dispose of another different chemical, for example, even
prolonged exposure to a toxic smoke leaves the canister contents
in their original state of activity so far as gases are concerned.
Moreover, it must be strongly emphasized that when canisters
begin to be saturated and so permit gas to come through the
“break” does not come with a rush. For a considerable period
of time the canister operates at say ninety-eight per cent efficiency,
permitting a trace of the irritant chemical to come through and
giving the wearer warning in ample time that the canister should
be replaced by a fresh one.
To what extent does the present canister protect against known
gases and what gases pass through it? An absolutely accurate
answer to this question can not be given as it has never been
tested against many gases. This was considered unnecessary as
a precisely similar filling was tested in the old “H” canister and
the results published by Fieldner, Teague and Yoe. The figures
for the present canister and future possible modifications of it in
shape (not contents) will be very similar to the figures below. In
the following table only the figures relating to the standard filling
are quoted from the original. By "machine test” is meant a flow
of thirty-two liters of the gas-air mixture per minute through
the canister and corresponds to a man doing moderate work. A
“man test” is made by a man at rest breathing through the canister
and approximates 8.1 liters per minute.


  p. 1187 (#95)                       

1925]
1187
The Gas Mask and the Next War
.........
119
64
5,100
41
w
henone
.....
15
30
Average Results of Tests Against Various Gases
Gas
Concentration parts Kind of Life in
per million by volume Test Minutes
Ammonia ..
....... 40,000
Machine
0
Ammonia
5,000
Machine
Ammonia
2,500
Machine
Arsenic trichloride .....
500
Machine
Arsenic trichloride
2,000
Machine
Benzol .................
40,000
Machine
Benzol ................
10,000
Machine 14
Benzyl bromide ........
100
Machine 470
Brombenzyl cyanide
28
Machine
Carbon bisulfide
10,000
Machine
17
Chloracetone
2,000
Machine 226
Chloracetone ..
8,000
Machine
Chloracetophenone
Machine 1,800
Chloracetyl chloride
1,000
Machine 408
Chloracetyl chloride
10,000
Machine
Chlorine
5,000
Machine
Chlorine ..
10,000
Man
125
Chlorpicrin
17,500
Machine
Chlorpicrin.
10,000
Machine
Chlorpicrin
4,000
Machine
Chlorpicrin ........
500
Machine
Chlorpicrin.
4,000
Man
Cyanogen bromide
50,000
Machine
Cyanogen bromide
100
Machine
Cyanogen bromide
1,230
Man
Cyanogen chloride
500
Machine
Cyanogen chloride
1,000
Machine
14
Dichlordiethyl sulfide
100
Machine
Dimethyl sulfate .......
700
Machine 262
Hydrocyanic acid ..
250
Machine 217
Hydrocyanic acid
1,000
Machine
Hydrocyanic acid
........
2,500
Machine
Hydrocyanic acid
5,000
Machine
Hydrogen chloride
5,000
Machine
Hydrogen chloride
50,000
Machine
9
Hydrogen sulfide
10,000
Machine
Methylchlorarsine
2,500
Machine
Methylchlorarsine
Machine
Methylchlorarsine
500
Man
Nitrogen peroxide .......
1,500
Man
Perchlormethylchloroformate
2,000
Machine 56
Perchlormethylmercaptan ...... 1,500
Machine 40
Phenylamido phosgene ....... 250
Machine
754
263
295
60
21
.....
1,980
64
17
74
97
118
5,000
310


  p. 1188 (#96)                       

1188
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
47
297
-
32
70
42
Phosgene
5,000
Machine
Phosgene .........
5,000
Man
Sulfur dioxide
2,500
Machine
60
Sulfur dioxide
5,000
Machine
Sulfur dioxide
50,000
Man
Sulfur monochloride
2,500
Machine
Thiophosgene
5,000
Machine
Xylyl bromide
250
Machine 470
The dichlordiethyl sulfide in the above table is mustard gas, and
the excellent protection afforded against it is to be noted. No
figures are given for smokes as the present filter is quite different
from the one used at the time of the above test. It can be seen
that the mask affords excellent protection against a wide range
of compounds; some, such as Hydrocyanic acid being very volatile,
others as Hydrogen Chloride being very active, and others such
as Mustard being quite inert. By analogy, and knowing the
formulas and characteristics of possible war agents it is possible to
approximately predict what protection the present canister will give
against them.
It is to be noted that almost no protection is given against
ammonia. The same is true of carbon-monoxide, the most actively
poisonous component of illuminating gas and the gases from turret
explosions, fumes in closed compartments and buildings, and gaso-
line engine exhausts. But before considering what gases pass
through easily it would be well to consider what presumably could
occur in a ships compartment if a shell containing one of the better
known chemical agents bursts in it. The case of a shell burst in a
compartment is taken as this would presumably give the highest
concentration of gas to which naval personnel will ever be exposed,
with the possible exception of gases from an airplane bomb con-
taining a chemical agent.
The average gas content of a shell is about as follows: four
inches, 1 pound; five inches, 2 pounds; six inches, 5 pounds; when
the gas is the principal content of the shell. These figures are the
average, and may be too low. Knowing the size of the compart-
ment and the rate of air change in it we can calculate the concentra-
tion to which the gas mask will be exposed under unusually high
concentrations, and see how it will stand up.
If we consider the case of a small motor room in a vessel of
the Colorado class, with a capacity in cubic feet of 10,000 and a


  p. 1189 (#97)                       

1925]
1189
The Gas Mask and the Nert War
ventilation system which supplies 10,000 cubic feet of air per
minute it will take one minute to supply one volume. If a six-inch
shell released five pounds of phosgene in this compartment there
would be established immediately a concentration of eighty ounces
to 10,000 cubic feet or eight ounces per 1,000 which is an enor-
mously high concentration. A low concentration of phosgene
would be 0.05 ounces per 1,000 cubic feet. The ratio of high to
low concentration is 160 to 1. The number of volumes of air to
be supplied by the ventilating system to reduce the concentration
from high to low is found by reduction curve to be five, and the
reduction from high concentration to low will occur in a very
few minutes. Moreover the original concentration of eighty
ounces to 10,000 cubic feet is equivalent to a concentration of 1,976
parts per million, and Fieldner's table shows that the canister will
protect against a concentration of 5,000 parts per million for forty-
seven minutes.
Hydrocyanic acid gas is one of the most deadly of the better
known gases. Under conditions similar to the above case, a six-
inch shell containing hydrocyanic acid would give a concentration
of eight ounces per 1,000 cubic feet, equivalent to 7,248 parts per
million, and the table shows that the older canister reported by
Fieldner gives protection for seventeen minutes against 5,000 parts
per million. Similar figures can be worked up for all gases and it
is found that excellent protection will be given against all known
gases unless the individual exposed is right next to the bursting
gas container. And furthermore, during the process of bursting
a gas shell the high temperature and pressure produced by the
booster-charge will decompose a considerable amount of the toxic
contents. In the event that the ventilating system is disabled the
concentration of gas will diminish slowly, the rate of diminution
varying with the amount of natural ventilation present, but the
prospect of the high concentrations required to pierce the gas mask
remaining for some time is very slight.
The protection afforded by the canister against hydrocyanic acid
is excellent; the protection against cyanogen chloride, a very toxic
gas is not so high. This is of considerable importance even in
peace times as cyanogen chloride is one of the components of the
new gas used by the Public Health Service in fumigating ships.
However, the protection afforded is sufficient to permit of brief


  p. 1190 (#98)                       

1190
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
exposures to the gas, such as might occur in rescuing personnel
accidentally closed in with the fumigant gas. Arsine, AsHz is
another gas against which the canister does not provide as high
protection as it does against such war gases as mustard, phosgene,
etc. Arsine is a highly toxic compound but as it is very in-
flammable it has never been successfully used in war. Calcium
arsenide, a solid, when moistened gives off arsine, and during the
war it was suggested that shells containing calcium arsenide should
be fired into the enemy lines on rainy or snowy days, in the hope
that a cloud of arsine would be generated within the enemy lines,
thus producing a very high concentration of the toxic agent where
it would do the most good. So far as the author knows this genial
idea was never put into execution.
As stated before, the war canister gives absolutely no protection
against carbon monoxide. While highly dangerous—as shown
every day by the deaths from illuminating gas—carbon monoxide
has never been used as a war gas as it is very light and is highly
inflammable. It was responsible for a large number of military
casualties during the war, especially among the troops engaged in
sapping and mining. On numerous occasions the tank-crews were
overcome by this gas, due to leaks developing in the engine exhaust
which resulted in the gas being liberated in the small and ill-
ventilated body of the tank. Machine gunners in concrete pill-
boxes were also overcome on occasion by the blow-back of gases
from their own guns. The numerous gas accidents on board ship
following either the detonation, or more often still, the deflagration,
of high explosives is so well known as to require no further com-
ment. However, it can never be sufficiently emphasized that the
war-mask should not be relied upon to enter compartments where
a fire is being fought, or to enter turrets in which an explosion
has recently occurred. The high percentage of carbon-monoxide
present in either of the above emergencies is sure to lead to
casualties if any gas mask is relied on for protection.
Thus far we have shown the extreme difficulty of breaking
through the canister even when enormous concentrations of the
present war gases are used, concentrations which are almost im-
possible to build up in the field. This brings us to a consideration
of what methods might be used by an enemy in developing an
agent which would pierce the canister and so lead to an enormous
number of casualties.


  p. 1191 (#99)                       

1925)
1191
The Gas Mask and the Next War
The following methods have been suggested as offering possibili-
ties. The author does not pretend to be the originator of them,
they are the results of a number of informal discussions with
investigators in the field of chemical warfare.
Recent developments in the smoke filter indicate that it will be
very difficult to get a toxic solid smoke through it in quantities
sufficient to cause irritation. It is believed that if a good liquid
toxic smoke could be developed it would possibly penetrate the
filter by eventually saturating it. Liquid smokes are known to
exist, tobacco smoke and “oleum” a screening smoke much used
during the World War being common examples. While a liquid
smoke might eventually saturate the filter the amount required
would be so large that this method does not seem practicable in
the field, the only place where it counts.
The use of toxic alkaloids as war agents has been suggested.
These substances are poisonous in the highest degree, a dose of
1/150 grain of aconitin being dangerous. These alkaloids are very
difficult to manufacture, some of them never having been made in
the laboratory. The difficulty and high cost of manufacture pre-
vents their production in quantities sufficient for use in war. If
released as smokes they would be stopped by the smoke filter, and
if it were possible to release them as gases, which is very difficult,
the large size of their molecules would lead to their being promptly
absorbed by the canister contents.
Another method that has been suggested for piercing the canister
is what might be called a saturation method. That is to say, a
prolonged and very concentrated cloud of some gas of high boiling
point is released against the enemy and eventually the charcoal of
the canister becomes partially saturated with this gas. It has been
seen before that as a rule charcoal will absorb a gas of high boiling
point in preference to one of low boiling point. If this prolonged
preliminary gasing is immediately followed by a cloud of another
gas of low boiling point and rather inert chemically there is a
possiblity of piercing the mask. But in this case, again, the
weight of material required for this procedure is very great.
The present mask gives almost no protection against ammonia,
but for a number of reasons the use of this gas as a war-agent is
impracticable. In general it is believed that the canister will not
protect against alkaline gases, but almost none of these exist.


  p. 1192 (#100)                      #

1192
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Methyl amine, CH NH,, di-methylamine, (CH3)2NH, and ethyl-
amine, C,H,NH, are all alkaline gases and will presumably pass
through the mask. No highly toxic derivatives of these gases are
known, and in general it may be said that even if developed they
would be too unstable for war use. It can be stated that the
development in the immediate future of an alkaline war gas is
impracticable.
New compounds are constantly being produced by the chemist.
Some of these are highly poisonous and it is probable that the
chemical agents to be used in the next war, if chemical warfare is
used, will be derived from these compounds. As a rule these
compounds are liquids or solids with a large molecule or a high
boiling point or both, and their passage through the canister is
not to be feared.
To summarize, it has been shown that the physical and chemical
properties of the canister contents are such that excellent pro-
tection is given against all the known war gases. It has also been
shown that the remarkable protection afforded by the filter pre-
cludes the passage of toxic solid or liquid smokes unless quantities
are used which would require an amount of material difficult to
transport and release. The avidity with which charcoal and soda
lime seize many chemicals assure us that they would similarly seize
any agents with a chemical structure that would cause them to be
toxics.
The present gas mask is by no means a finished article. It is
constantly being improved, in the same way that armor is con-
stantly being improved. As new chemical agents are developed,
and as new methods of releasing them on the enemy are found,
the canister will have to be modified to meet the new menace, and
work along this line is being carried on in many countries; but the
chemical and physical theories which form the basis for modern
canister design are sound, and slight additions and alterations to
the present canister would suffice to meet any emergency.
In conclusion, the author desires to express his obligations to
Mr. P. O. Rockwell of the Anti-gas Department of Edgewood
Arsenal for valuable aid and criticism during the preparation of
this article.


  p. 1193 (#101)                      #

MATTHEW FONTAINE MAURY
BY COMMANDER LEWIS Coxe, U. S. Navy
T THE top of all pilot charts issued by the Hydrographic
A Office of the Navy Department appears the legend "Founded
upon the researches made and the data collected by Lieu-
tenant M. F. Maury, U. S. Navy." Who was Lieutenant Maury,
and what did he do? Even among members of his own profession,
the Navy, it appears that considerable uncertainty exists as to who
the man was, when he lived and how he came to make the ex-
haustive studies and investigations necessary to assemble the vast
detail of hydrographical and meteorological data contained in the
pilot charts of the seven seas.
The comment about a prophet being not without honor save in
his own country seems to apply to Maury with particular force,
as his work was recognized and rewarded by foreign governments
in greater measure than by his own. It is not unlikely that cir-
cumstances connected with the Civil War were responsible for this
fact, but, in all events, his accomplishments showed such a high
degree of professional ability and were of such lasting importance
to all mariners that his name and deeds should be known and
respected by all naval officers.
Matthew Fontaine Maury was born near Fredericksburg, Vir-
ginia, in 1806, and joined the Navy at the age of nineteen. His
first duty afloat was on board the frigate Brandywine which con-
veyed General Lafayette to France and remained for some time
in European and Mediterranean waters. His next assignment was
to the sloop-of-war Vincennes, Captain C. Wilkes, U. S. Navy,
commanding. On this vessel he spent four years in circumnavi-
gating the globe on a then-famous expedition for the determination
of meridian distances and the study of oceanography (1826-30).
This cruise was followed by several years on the Pacific station
during which time, as a result of his studies and practical experi-
ence, he produced a treatise on navigation that was long the official
textbook of the U. S. Navy.


  p. 1194 (#102)                      #

1194
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
In 1839 Maury suffered a severe accident which caused perma-
nent lameness and disqualified him for further active service afloat.
He was, accordingly, retired as a lieutenant but continued his
studies and writings of naval topics. His Scraps from the Lucky
Bag, a series of articles dealing with much needed naval reforms,
attracted wide attention at the time and led to considerable im-
provement in existing conditions.
In 1842 he was placed in charge of the Depot of Charts and
Instruments, (now the Hydrographic Office and Naval Observa-
tory), at Washington, D. C. This assignment gave him the oppor-
tunity to pursue the investigations which later brought him
world-wide fame as a scientific student of the sea.
· From the first his active mind had been attracted to the study of
the laws governing meteorological and hydrographical phenomena
and he was among the few fully to realize that, in consequence of
definite laws, the winds, currents, tidal waves, temperatures, etc.,
moved in an orderly procession and could, therefore, be predicted
and charted.
He instituted a system that is still in effect today, for obtaining
reports of winds, currents and other important navigational data
from the masters of ships of all nations. From thousands of these
reports, which he personally studied and classified, he constructed
his Wind and Current Charts and Sailing Directions which showed
the mariner the most favorable sea routes to follow at different
seasons in all parts of the globe.
Maury realized that these subjects were of such vast importance
to the seafaring world and of such varied and multitudinous detail
that international cooperation was necessary for favorable prog-
ress. Through his efforts an international conference was held in
Brussels in 1853 for the purpose of "devising a uniform system
of meteorological observations at sea and of concurring in a gen-
eral plan of observation on the winds and currents of the ocean
with a view to the improvement of navigation, and to the acquire-
ment of a more correct knowledge of the laws which govern those
elements.” Sixteen maritime nations were represented at this con-
ference and their deliberations brought about a marked improve-
ment in navigational knowledge and practice.
It was at this time that Maury published his best known works.
His Letters on the Amazon and Atlantic Slopes of South America


  p. 1195 (#103)                      #

1925)
1195
Natthew Fontaine Maury
appeared in 1853. The following year he produced Lanes for
Steamers Crossing the Atlantic, and the first bathymetrical map of
the North Atlantic ocean giving contours up to 4,000 fathoms. In
1855 he published Physical Geography of the Sea. These works,
especially the last named, won him an international reputation and
were translated into the principal European languages, He was
honored and decorated by emperors, kings and presidents and re-
ceived degrees and memberships from the universities and scientific
societies of many nations.
The United States Government promoted him to the rank of
commander, a not over-generous recognition of his signal achieve-
ments, but he is still almost invariably referred to by his earlier
title of lieutenant.
Maury's interests and anibitions were not, however, confined to
scientific study and research. One of his most cherished schemes
was the uniting of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans by the construc-
tion of a canal at Panama, but in this he was too far ahead of his
time. He also invented improved methods of deep-sea soundings
that made possible the laying of the first Atlantic cable.
When the Civil War broke out Maury cast in his lot with his
native state and resigned from the federal service. He was com-
missioned a commodore in the Confederate Navy but his physical
disability precluded any active participation in the conflict. His
one contribution to actual hostilities was the invention of an elec-
trical torpedo. But again his mind was too far advanced for the
practical uses of his day.
The Confederate government sent him to England as a special
agent to look out for their foreign interests. Here he was ap-
proached by both the French and Russian governments who made
him flattering offers to continue his former scientific work in their
respective countries, the French offering him the directorship of
the Imperial Observatory at Paris. But Maury could not be
tempted away from his allegiance to the "Lost Cause."
Upon the termination of the war he found himself an exile in a
foreign land. He was tendered, and accepted, an appointment by
the Emperor Maximilian of Mexico to the post of Imperial Com-
missioner of Immigration in that country. This was in the expecta-
tion of a large exodus from the Southern States to Mexico but,
as it failed to materialize, the plans for colonization were aban-


  p. 1196 (#104)                      #

1196
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
doned and Maury returned to England. Here he resided for a
time, during which he was the recipient of numerous honors, in-
cluding a testimonial raised by popular subscription and the degree
of LL.D. from Cambridge University.
In 1868 Maury took advantage of a general amnesty to return
to his native state where he was appointed to the chair of physics
at the Virginia Military Institute. He held this position until his
death in February, 1873, at Lexington, Virginia.
Maury was possessed of a romantic temperament and his years
of exile had intensified his love for the land of his birth. During
his enforced residence on foreign soil he had often expressed the
desire to be buried with those who fell in the southern ranks at
Richmond, the capital of the Confederacy, and that his body be
conveyed there through the beautiful Goshen Pass at the time when
"the laurel burst its buds."
His wishes were complied with and, after a temporary inter-
ment at Lexington, his remains were finally laid to rest the follow-
ing June among his own dead in Hollywood Cemetery at Rich-
mond.
In Goshen Pass, among the laurels, there was erected in June,
1923, a simple granite column with an anchor at its base and bear-
ing a bronze tablet on which are inscribed the words:
“MATTHEW FONTAINE MAURY,
The Pathfinder of the Sea.”


  p. 1197 (#105)                      #

MAURY'S GENIUS SHOWN IN OLD LETTER
How the First Superintendent of the Naval Observatory Saved
Fifty Years
By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER G. E. BRANDT, U. S. Navy
THE Secretary of the Navy has given new evidence of appre-
ciation for the scientific work of the late Lieutenant Matthew
Fontaine Maury by assigning to the oceanographic research
now being planned, the name Maury U. S. Naval Oceanographic
Research.
The recent revival of interest in ocean study has thrown into
prominent relief the career of Lieutenant Maury, who rightly has
been called the Pathfinder of the Seas. More than ordinary in-
terest, therefore, is attached to the finding of an old letter written
by Maury to the Secretary of the Navy, disclosing a very interest-
ing side of his genius.
In 1847, Lieutenant Maury was Superintendent of the Naval
Observatory. The scientific world was singing his praises for
those masterful inventions and researches in winds and currents
which placed hydrography on a scientific basis and gave us our
valuable pilot charts.
About this time, there rose to fame in France, a young astron-
omer named Leverrier who, puzzling over the erratic behavior of
the planet Uranus, determined by mathematical calculation that it
must be under the influence of an undiscovered planet located in
a certain part of the heavens. He had no telescope powerful
enough to find the planet so he wrote to an astronomer in Berlin
and asked him to direct his telescope to a certain given point in the
heavens and to search for the planet. The German astronomer
followed the directions of Leverrier with the result that within a
half hour after the search was begun, the planet we now know as
Neptunel was discovered.
*Called Leverrier in Maury's letter.


  p. 1198 (#106)                      #

1198
. (July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Because of the slow movement of the planet Neptune, many
years would be required to collect from observations sufficient data
to define the planet's orbit. At this point, according to a letter
which has just been found in the ancient files of the Navy De-
partment, Lieutenant Maury stepped in and offered the suggestion,
entirely applicable, that sufficient data might perhaps be obtained
from the records of the past. Maury's speculations proved cor-
rect as shown in the letter which follows and which is here pub-
lished for the first time:
Observatory,
Washington, Feb. 9, 1847.
Sir:
I have the honor to announce the very probable discovery that the new
planet Leverrier was observed as a fixed star by Lalande in 1795.
Astronomers have regarded the discovery of this planet as one of the
proudest triumphs of the age. Everything connected with it therefore has
been regarded with a peculiar interest. It has been attentively watched by
observers in all parts of the earth, with the view of obtaining the requisite
data for its orbit. But the period of its revolution embraces more than a
century and a half, and years of observation would be required to afford
these data with the requisite precision. The world was curious to know
them, and astronomers everywhere were anxious to afford them; for they
are possessed of high interest and exceeding value.
The data which the tedious future is sure to afford, might perhaps be ob-
tained from the records of the past, if perchance this star had been observed
by any of the old astronomers.
As soon as circumstances permitted, the search was undertaken at this
Observatory, and the duty of conducting it assigned to Mr. Walker, who has
acquitted himself of the task in a manner highly satisfactory.
The motions of the planet since its discovery have been altogether insuf-
ficient to afford a set even of approximate elements by the ordinary methods
of calculation. From the 26th Sept. to 26th Dec. 1846, the apparent path
of the planet did not embrace an arc greater in length than one-half of one
degree; a base, (affected as it is by the unavoidable errors of observation),
entirely insufficient for determining the exact elements of the ellipse of
which it is a part.
But as in its first discovery, so it has been here—there was room for the
display of mathematical ingenuity and artifice. By treating this path as
the arc of a circle, by assuming a radius vector which should fulfil certain
conditions, and which was obtained by a sort of tentative process; and then
discussing the problem according to the circular hypothesis, a set of ele-
ments was obtained at the second trial which are as follows:


  p. 1199 (#107)                      #

1925)
1199
Maury's Genius as shown in Old Letter
..............
and elements
165 97030
Ascending node .........
....... 129° 48' 23" 2
Inclination ..
1 45 19 9
Epoch Jan. Ist 1847 ....
326 59 34 74
5 Radius vector Sept. 28th 1846
30.005064
Excentricity (unknown) ..
Semiaxis major .....
30.200585
Mean daily siderial motion ........
21" 37881
True daily motion in the orbit Sept. 28, 1846
21" 65789
Period in tropical years...
100000
The Ephemeris computed from these approximate elements on com-
parison with observation, required the following corrections in longitude
and latitude:
Correction of the Correction of the
Comparison Date
Computed Longitude Computed Latitude
1847 Aug. 8
Sub 0".08 Sub 0."83
Sep. 28
Add 0.49
Add 0. 84
Oct. 4
Add 0.19 Add 1. 51
Oct. 10
Add 0 .22 Add 0. 03
Oct. 18
Sub 1.03 Add 0. 80
Oct. 26
Sub 1.31 Add 0. 56
Nov. 10
Add 1.03
Add 0. 02.
Dec. 7.
Sub 0. 13 Add 0. 12
Dec. 26
Sub 0.16 Add 1. 19
A third trial might perhaps have approximated still more closely but this
was deemed sufficient for our purposes.
Computing back from these elements Besselo zones were entered with
the resulting ephemeris. These zones comprise a catalogue of 75,000 stars,
but among this host, the planet was no where to be found. The next process
was to step back into the last century, compute the place occupied by the
planet at a certain time when Lalande was making his observations for
that celebrated work the Histoire Celeste, and see if, at any time, it had
passed through the field of his telescope. Among the 40,000 stars numbered
by that astronomer, it was discovered that there was one observed by him
on the night of May 10th 1795, which might have been "Leverrier” instead
of a fixed star. The place of Leverrier was carried back to the time on
that night when Lalande saw what has now and for the first time assumed
the character of a suspicious star. The two are:
Mag. Clock Time South Zenith Dist.
Star seen by Lalande May 10th 1795 7.8 14h um 23.55 60°. 07' 19"
Leverrier by its Washington
Ephemeris
do 8 14 1 23.5 60 07 50
The agreement is remarkable. Lalande saw near this place no other star
answering the planet's description. If, however, it were the planet, upon


  p. 1200 (#108)                      #

1200*
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
returning the telescope upon its place as seen by Lalande, a blank spot only
would be seen.
The night-Feb. 2 was cloudy. The night of Feb. 4th was clear, and
upon turning the large telescope of the observatory upon the position in-
dicated, nothing was seen. All the stars in whose company Lalande had
seen the star of the 7.8 magnitude were there, but the star itself was miss-
ing. What is the inference? Clearly one of three. Ist that the celebrated
astronomer saw no star of the 7.8 magnitude--and such a supposition is
hardly admissible. Admitting then that he saw it, the ad inference was,
that it has been blotted out from the heavens, which again is a violent
assumption; and the 3d, that it has changed its place to some other group or
part of the heavens—and is therefore a planet or some other revolving
body—as a comet.
The doctrine of probabilities would seem to indicate that it was a planet.
Supposing it to be the planet Leverrier, and leaving this question to be
finally settled by subsequent facts) the following are its approximate ele-
ments, using its places of May 1oth 1795, and September 28th, Nov. 7th
and Dec. 28th 1846, as referred to the mean equinox of Jan. ist 1847, and
to mean time Greenwich.
From actual Supposing it the miss-
observation i ng Star of Lalande
Longitude of the perihelion ......... Unknown
0° 12' 25".51
Longitude of the ascending node..... 129° 48' 23".20 131 17 35 .80
Epoch of mean longitude Jan. I, 1847 Unknown
328 07 56 .64
True longitude on the orbit Sept. 28th,
1846 ...
326 59 34 .74 326 59 34 .74
Inclination .....
1 45 19.90 I 54 53 .87
Excentricity
Unknown
0.0088407
Mean distance .........
30.200585
30.250420
Radius vector Sept. 28th 1846 ...... 30.005064
30.002596
Mean daily siderial motion ......... 21." 37881
21." 32600
True daily motion in orbit Sept. 28,
1846 .................
....... 21."65789
21.64553
97030
Period in tropical years ....
100000
Should it turn out that the star observed as above by Lalande was really
the planet Leverrier, the discovery of this fact will give to astronomers
the advantage of almost fifty-two years of observation.
After the discovery of the planet Herschell, it was forty years before
the requisite tables for his orbit were completed, and it is only within a few
years past that he has obtained in the Nautical Almanac of England a
place for his ephemeris.
Should we be able to discover among the multitudes of stars that have
been observed by astronomers in various parts of the world between the
years 1795 and 1846, that the new planet was among them, the data for its
......... 165. 100000
166.38134


  p. 1201 (#109)                      #

1925)
1201
Maury's Genius as shown in Old Letter
elements will be complete, and we shall at once know as much of this
mathematical planet as we now do of the oldest of its telescopic brethren.
A mathematical planet it certainly is, for it is the discovery of mathe-
matics, and has reversed the ordinary rules-Hitherto, the telescope, with
its space penetrating power, has discovered the planets, and then referred
them to mathematics. But in this case, mathematics with a space pene-
trating power which has astounded the world, has taken the lead. Reach-
ing far into the depths of space, it has first announced a discovery, and then
appealed to astronomers of Europe with their telescopes to "see and believe."
“Look," said Leverrier, when he had concluded the demonstration of his
problem, "look and you will see the planet well.” At this next greatest dis-
covery with regard to it, the night was cloudy, but though the suspected
star of Lalande was down on the Berlin Star maps "ten to one" was
offered at the Washington Observatory that the large equatorial would
report it missing; and missing it is.
Respectfully,
Your Obt. Seryt.,
M. F. Maury,
Lt. U.S.N.
To the
Honorable John Y. Mason,
Secretary of the Navy,
Washington City,
D. C.


  p. 1202 (#110)                      #

SOME NOTES ON DESTROYER HANDLING
ALONGSIDE
By LIEUTENANT H. R. THURBER, U. S. Navy
W E WERE waiting in the cool of the morning for the
V U.S.S. V— to pull away from us at the anchorage to the
west of Culebra. A choppy sea bumped the V— 's star-
board side against us, and a fresh trade wind strained our anchor
chain broad on the port bow. Captain — with bronzed outlay
of two and a half stripes folded over his lee bridge rail, stuck out
his jaw—and pipe-in response to our “Good morning, sir !" He
glanced astern where, a scant 300 yards, lay two pairs of destroy-
ers at anchor. “Let go all lines !” he snapped out. “Both engines !
Back two thirds! Right ten degrees rudder !” And, as an after-
thought, with grandstand flourish, and oblivious to the roaring of
blowers, belching of stacks, and celerity in handling lines, he waved
us a farewell with his pipe, the V- already shooting astern like
an arrow. Almost at our stern the V—_'s bow quivered as she
was dragged to a stop; slowly it drifted past our stern from port
to starboard, and with a dash she scampered past us to starboard
and headed out for her screen position in the day's tactical prob-
lem. “Great seamanship” remarked our skipper, and all on the
bridge agreed. Captain J- was known throughout the squadron
as a dashing ship handler.
That evening we anchored and waited for the 1- to come
alongside. She came sliding up on our port quarter—we all watch-
ing from our bridge with interest. Up alongside she glided, per-
fectly. Then something went wrong. The V did not stop
according to Hoyle, but with a grinding away of sidelights, bridge
windshields, forecastle stanchions and lifelines, she swooped ahead
half a length. Pandemonium broke loose on the V— 's bridge,
men scrambled to the rails, the water astern frothed as her engines
backed frantically. It was a matter of seconds ere the
V l ay
panting alongside, but the net result on Captain J— 's demeanor
was so terrible-eyes flashing wildly, veins starting, pipe and arms


  p. 1203 (#111)                      #

1925)
1203
Destroyer Handling Alongside
waving, and traditionally seamanlike phrases flooding the air-
that we hastened below decks to our stateroom, there to light our
pipe and feverishly compile the following notes on handling de-
stroyers alongside.
These have been edited, expurgated, freed of their fever, and
are presented now with apologies to Admirals Knight, Luce and to
the several destroyer captains whose seamanship has been ob-
served. No exhaustive treatise on destroyer seamanship, this;
just a few "wrinkles” noticed and herewith presented, following
the precepts of very cautious destroyer captains who never have
carried away docks, breakwaters, anchors, or propellers—at least,
not more than once. Lucky men!
General Considerations.--At the risk of boring the reader to
tears, the following general points are laid out. The destroyer
handler should know the length, beam and draft of his ship, and
have a bird's-eye picture in his mind of these dimensions—it won't
do to try to wedge into a twenty-foot crack, secure to a dock with
only seventy-five yards of extreme draft water alongside at low
tide, or make twenty-five knots over a twenty-four foot channel.
In connection with the draft, it should be ascertained how much
the propeller's tips extend below the keel—in certain types of de-
stroyers this projection amounts to as much as one foot, ten and a
half inches below the keel, from which a carpenter's mate will
usually log the draft. During the course of most any well-regu-
lated cruise, the Roman numerals noting propeller draft will be
painted over—besides, to some draft recorders, the darn things
don't mean anything. One captain in my short recollection forgot
his propeller draft and destroyed his steaming multiple for the
month trying to shake loose from a spot in the Potomac River.
The height of the masthead might make some difference in going
under bridges or aerial cables. The width of the foremast yardarm
should be considered in going alongside; some captains prefer
"staggering” their ship, so the yardarm will not mesh with others
alongside in case of a list, due to oiling or a rocking swell. It is
but careful seamanship to note the relative position of propeller
guards, as “locked” or “riding” guards will do some damage, even
to the extent of involving the propellers themselves. The guard
rails should be separated by a fender of sufficient dimension to pre-
vent riding up and down of the rails. A careful seaman will sweep


  p. 1204 (#112)                      #

1204
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
his eye from forecastle to fantail on the "engaged” side to ensure
a clear side—scupper lip extensions housed; sidelights removed ;
boats, davits, torpedo tubes, gangways, windscoops and anchor
flatly rigged. Some urge the “decking' of the inboard anchor as
necessary, even in most favorable conditions, regarding this latter
as an "evolution," which word has found much expansion in the
destroyer force, sounding less ‘irksome, perhaps, than "drill.”
These points seem self-evident, but in time of stress they are apt
to be overlooked; hence, the inclusion.
Definite understanding with the engine room in the matter of
standard speed when getting underway from alongside or when
going alongside, should be made as a special point. The engineer
officer, who, according to the blue book, must be in the master
engine room control station, should be informed of the antics an-
ticipated; emergency gongs should be tested out just before getting
underway and at an appropriate time before going alongside; and
the "getting underway" details should be at their stations. In ex-
tending the remarks on standard speed, please allow the following
excerpt from one destroyer's "Ship Standing Orders” as an illus-
tration of definite understanding :
Standard speed is that speed in knots designated by the commanding
officer. Unless word is received to the contrary, this shall be fifteen knots
when getting underway. Ahead standard is the command for standard
speed ahead.
Ahead one third is one third of standard speed.
Ahead two thirds is two thirds of standard speed.
Back one third is that speed astern resulting from the maintenance of
fifty pounds pressure on the astern turbine steam gage.
Back two thirds is that speed astern resulting from the maintenance of
100 pounds pressure on the astern turbine steam gage.
Back full speed is that speed astern resulting from the introduction of
steam full into the astern turbine, provided that main steam gage pressure
is not carried below 200 pounds.
The following resultants of different combinations of opposite engine
speeds obtain on this ship:
Ahead one third on one engine, back one third on another; resultant
direction of ship, astern.
Ahead two thirds on one engine, back one third on other; resultant direc-
tion of ship, ordinarily pivot, or very slow ahead.
Ahead standard or ahead full speed on one engine, back one third on
other; resultant direction of ship, ahead:


  p. 1205 (#113)                      #

1925)
1205
Destroyer Handling Alongside
Ahead standard on one engine, back two thirds on other; resultant direc-
tion of ship, pivot, or very slow astern.
Other combinations may be deduced and combined with rudder throw.
Generally, this ship will back into the wind, unless at or nearly at full load
fuel condition. Generally, this ship, light, cannot be headed up from a beam
wind into the wind, and for this reason especially in crowded harbors, an
anchor must be ready for letting go to accomplish this end by the simple
expedient of allowing the ship to swing on her anchor up into the wind.
Before relinquishing the topic of standard maneuvering speed,
it may be well to insert one other precaution. When you ring up
"stop," do your throttlemen merely close the throttle valve? Or
do they introduce steam into the opposite motion turbine and bring
and hold the shafts to a dead stop? Without arguing the varying
points in favor of each—let alone the violation of “best engineer-
ing practice”—the writer believes in the first method because: (a)
the ship is not dragged into unexpected quarters by “checking"
(with possible reversing) of the shafts; (b) the engineering mul-
tiple is not ruined by the use of power necessary to hold the shafts;
(c) the writer has seen both methods used, and has observed the
first is as adaptable as the second. It is well, though, in the case
of an initial attempt with a new command, to ascertain which
method is "standard practice.”
Personnel and Material.—Some note should be made here, be-
fore going to actual typical conditions, of the personnel and ma-
terial involved. Under practically all conditions the following
deck stations should be manned as shown below, and checked by
the executive officer before he reports, “All ready for getting
underway, sir!" Personnel on the bridge: chief quartermaster
(or best helmsman) at the wheel ; chief yeoman at engine room
annunciators; one quartermaster at whistle; one quartermaster at
upper bridge searchlight (if at night); speed cone men at cones;
signalmen at flag bags; talker at voice tubes to after deck house
and to main searchlights (if at night); messenger at hand. The
annunciator man should understand thoroughly the use of the
emergency gongs, also, if at night, the use of the truck (speed)
light. The "engaged side" rail of the bridge must be kept clear.
All orders should be repeated back. The executive should man a
small megaphone and stand near the wheel, and emergency gongs.
The navigator should be at hand, of course. Free gangway must
be afforded the ship handler, and to that effect all sight seers


  p. 1206 (#114)                      #

1206
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
should be assigned to the nether regions, if necessary, by the use of
good, round vocal authority.
On the forecastle, aside from the crew at quarters, the first
lieutenant usually oversees the deck force. Preliminary notice of
the engaged side should be given him if the ship is to go alongside,
so his lines may be ready for running, and the engaged anchor
brought in on deck. One small fender should be ready for use at
the billboard and one at the break of the forecastle. Heaving lines
minus lead weights are in favor with those on the receiving end.
For celerity in handling, the bow line should be known as “Num-
ber One," the after spring as “Number Two," and the forward
spring as “Number Three”; and the first lieutenant should have
his men instructed as to the relative difference of "checking,"
“slacking" and "holding" these lines. The capstan should be ready
for immediate use, remembering that much steam can be saved the
main engines by the use of this important auxiliary, with no at-
tendant shame to the ship handler for "wishy-washy" seamanship.
A breast line, known as “Number Four," run through the free-
ing ports or chocks on the well deck after the other lines are se-
cured, is firmly advocated by many captains as a stabilizer in a
tideway, during fuelling and for turning in pairs.
The large cane fender provided destroyers should be slung over
the side of the galley deck house well before going alongside, to
serve as a guard rail buffer.
Some destroyer captains believe in stationing an officer with
megaphone on the engaged side of the galley deckhouse to facili-
tate “emergency” communications aft.
Going aft, the main searchlights should be mentioned. At night,
these may be indispensable, should be tested, and should be en-
sured effective coʻnmunication. Searchlights have unexpected uses
and should be ready for immediate use without having to send for
the chief electrician's mate who may be making his toilet prepara-
tory to walking over the gangplank.
The after deckhouse is the domain of the gunnery officer, and a
good voice tube talker with his ear to the bridge tube. The ord-
nance force on the fantail are required to "cinch in" the stern, and
must realize that, under most conditions, this cinching in is a very
important part of securing with snap. A few "heave in the stern"
conditions will bring a keen appreciation of this point. A fender


  p. 1207 (#115)                      #

1925)
1207
Destroyer Handling Alongside
ready to secure over the propeller guard (permanent guard fenders
are unsightly on a trim destroyer) will often save the paint work,
let alone a dent in the guard, as well as the other fellow's plating.
Of course, if one is so fortunate as to have a kite balloon winch
aft, the stern may be safely hung off and heaved in later. One
more point in regard to the gunnery officer, good seamanship will
teach him to clear bumboats astern, have the clothes lines clear of
clothes, have the garbage chute rigged in, and similar eyesores to
the squadron commander eclipsed.
Of course, "colors” must be shifted with a snap. It often dis-
concerts other ship captains in the vicinity to see some ship free
of the "jack” forward and flying an ensign aft both at the staff
and at the gaff!
For reference, a diagram of lines and fenders is shown herewith.
#1 #3 #2 #4
#6
#5 #7
X e
READY
FENDER
A
FENDER
READY /
FENDER
READY
FENOERI
To Wat
O pod
HOUSED
ANCHOR
Fig. 1
Now to the muttons ! Certain typical conditions will be shown,
with brief outlines of "what do,” but it is hoped that destroyer
handlers will appreciate the "tenderness” of a destroyer and its
"whims," so that in case the solutions do not meet with seemly
success, no blame will be attached to the writer, 'for the solutions
presented have been worked out before his eyes. “A destroyer
frequently does just the opposite of what one thinks it should do,"
is the experience of one captain. Another says, “Don't rely too
much on theory!" And still another states that “an analysis of
what happened after the battle will tend to straighten you out for
future conditions of a similar nature.” Which leads to repeat an
adage particularly applicable to destroyers, “You never find two
alike at any one time, and you never find one alike twice.” Hence,
they call a ship "she.”
Getting Underway from an Anchored Ship-Take the case of
a destroyer getting underway from another ship not secured to a


  p. 1208 (#116)                      #

1208
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
pier. Note carefully the tide, wind and surrounding shipping.
Given, the ideal case of the two ships riding direct to wind and
tide, with no interference ahead or astern. Going ahead is
simple if handled with despatch. The illustration, marked Fig. 2,
is self-explanatory—own ship shaded. As the case is presented,
give, “right fifteen degrees rudder!" Instruct first lieutenant to
hold “Number Three." Let go all other forecastle lines. The tide
20 RIGHT
&P 5 RIGHT
15 RIGHT
MIDSHIPS
FIG. 2
and wind will force the bow out, and Number Three will further
spring the bow away. As the bow starts to work out, let go all
lines and give “Port engine! Ahead one third !" The rudder and
ahead motion will work the stern
* OBSTRUCTION away sufficiently to use both engines.
As stern clears, give, “Rudder
amidships ! Both engines, ahead
two thirds!" Should the stern tend
to swing back toward the anchored
ship (or the anchored ship swing
in), resort to the action shown in
the third phase of the figure.
If there is interference ahead,
the case is resolved as shown in
Fig. 3.
IŠ RIGHT
Here, the wash of the starboard
Fig. 3
screw running into the confined
space between the two ships will at
first force their sterns apart. As own ship gathers sternboard, the
rudder will counteract this and draw own stern across the stern
of the anchored vessel.


  p. 1209 (#117)                      #

1925]
1209
Destroyer Handling Alongside
With wind conditions adverse, the case becomes more compli-
cated. Take a case as follows: wind strong on own exposed beam,
other ship anchored with anchor broad on her bow and across
yours, tide holding ships as shown in diagram, Fig. 4.
HEAVE IN ON
HEAVE \ ANCHOR
in on
NUM BERA
ONE
WIND
RICET
20
LEFT
20 RIGHT
Fig. 4
The problem above is to prevent raking. By "cinching in” the
bow, first housing such obstructions as anchors on both ships, the
stern is cleared for reversing both engines. When all ready to
cast off, the anchored ship might heave in on her anchor, as this
will tend to head both ships up into the wind and tend to keep her
stern clear when lines are cast loose. The two thirds (or full)
astern will clear the ships rapidly enough to prevent the anchored
ship from swinging back. The inboard engine will further separate
the ships by the "wash.” It would be slightly better to reverse the
outboard engine a fraction before the inboard engine to give the
stern an initial set "in," with a consequent set "out" for the bow.
In closing this case, it might be added that an attempt to go out
ahead would be well nigh impossible without "ruining everything."
Another case would be with wind strong on other ship's exposed
beam, with her anchor out to windward as shown below, tide hold-
HEAVE IN ON
NUMBER ONE
WIND
Kaim
S.S.
MIDSHIPY
20 RIGHT
Fig. 5


  p. 1210 (#118)                      #

1210
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ing the ships as illustrated. Fig. 5 shows a method of going out
ahead; Fig. 6, of going out astern, the latter preferable.
In the above case,
the bow would be
kept out by the wind,
Wino
especially if the ship
is light of fuel for-
ward. The problem
is to get the stern out
and keep it out.
15 RIGHT
The problem here is
Fig. 6
to keep the bow out,
as the wind will act
on the ship aft, tending to rake the bow in.
Going Alongside Anchored Ships. Having touched upon solu-
tions of getting away from an anchored ship without scratching
her paintwork, take now some typical examples of going alongside
a ship at anchor. A caution in all cases : do not get your bow or
your stern so close you can't get 'em away! Ready lines, fenders,
efficient communication with after deckhouse (and searchlights),
clear side, special bridge details, and engine rooms! Also, a cau-
tionary signal in ample time to the ship approached! The gen-
erally ideal approach, when possible, is from the anchored ship's
quarter, so that own ship is in relative position as shown in Fig. 7.
ABOUT
20
ROUGHLY,
FOR FORECASTLE LENGTH)
ABOUT
Yos. K
Fig. 7


  p. 1211 (#119)                      #

1925]
1211
Destroyer Handling Alongside
At this point, the ship should be moving slowly ahead. Too
much speed may easily result in dented sides, bent noses, ripped
stanchions, and general ruin, considering the sensitiveness of de-
stroyers when not under deft control, or should there be a casualty
in engine room control. Naturally, wind and tide conditions should
be observed and their effect not only on own ship's action but also
on the anchored ship's, noted.
First, take an ideal condition, with anchored ship riding to wind
and tide. The simplest maneuver to make the side is shown in
Fig. 8. .
STOP
10 LEFT
Fig. 8
This maneuver brings in the stern without involving the inboard
engine at close quarters. If the bow is not "in," the capstan will
remedy that condition. The writer has seen a ship drift alongside
without backing of engines by the captain, who didn't care a
tinker's last about dash, but who did put his ship at the top of the
steaming list.
A more dashing method of making the side has been observed
and is presented—though the last time this was observed, the an-
chored ship's side (ours), received dents from the approaching
ship's propeller guard—which dents, however, “do not affect the
fighting efficiency.” (Hull Report.) It is shown in Fig. 9.


  p. 1212 (#120)                      #

1212
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
15 LEFT
Fig. 9
Three other conditions should be noted briefly in regard to going
alongside. The first is a condition of strong tide, sea, or wind
from ahead. The general approach should be the same as noted in
Fig. 8, with the possible exception that the bow should be pointed
up more to avoid the possibility of tide, sea, or wind carrying the
bow against the anchored ship's galley deckhouse. The other ex-
treme would be that of allowing the bow to get out so far before
a forecastle line is passed to the anchored ship that it would be
impossible to force the bow back into tide, sea, or wind.
The second condition is illustrated in Fig. 10.
ABOUT
10 YOS.
cal
& ↑ J.Stop
WIND
Culo
15 LEFT
Fig. 10


  p. 1213 (#121)                      #

1925)
1213
Destroyer Handling Alongside
The solution of the above condition is based on the action of the
wind on the exposed portion of the ship's side. A caution here!
If own bow is too close to other ship, the wind acting on own stern
may throw the bow into other ship's side.
The third condition is illustrated in Fig. 11.
WIND
STOP
FIG. II
The last backing will partially save the bumping of ships which
would result from the leeway made by own ship, although the
backing might be inadvisable if the stern were in too close. In
most instances of this kind (with a strong beam wind) a relatively
good-sized “bump” may be expected, although the blow may be
softened by having the bow canted out slightly; when the “bump"
occurs, this will permit both ships to cushion it by pivoting on the
galley deck-house fender.
In all the above cases of going alongside, a 4.0 job may be con-
sidered done when own ship comes alongside with guard rails of
both ships two feet apart and with the slightest possible kick astern
on the engines ; also, when lines are handled properly. Don't allow
all hands to let go heaving lines when the ship is two feet too far
off and then spend their time at recoiling them when their use
is really necessary! A caution comes to mind. Do not follow the
solutions presented without watching the ship's movements as a


  p. 1214 (#122)                      #

1214
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
whole-do not hesitate to change speed or rudder promptly when
unusual conditions arise. If you come up parallel too far out from
the other ship, it is very easy to "warp” alongside by light use of
ahead and astern speed on your outboard engine.
Maneuvers at Piers.—Having taken up several typical cases of
getting underway from alongside and going alongside ships, a
word or two might be added with regard to maneuvers at piers.
Practically the only variance of conditions here from those shown
in preceding cases is of a transverse tidal or wind sweep. This
is noticeable at nearly all ports in varying intensities, so no par-
ticular localities will be given. It should be stated though that,
where possible, a request for tug assistance is neither cowardly nor
unseamanlike. Consider the appalled countenance of a destroyer
captain noted for his dash and nerve, who attempted to maneuver
his ship into position between two others at a navy yard dock, and
had the first lieutenant report, after securing that the crew in the
forward living compartment had a new window thirty feet long
and fourteen inches wide, through which to contemplate the glory
of the winter night!
Most all cases of getting underway from a dock with transverse
wind and tide, whether inside a pier or along a pierhead, resolve
into a solution of springing out the stern by breasting in the bow,
letting go all lines quickly when this is accomplished, backing at
two-thirds or full speed until there is open water between pier or
other ship moored to pier, using the rudder as an aid in direction,
and then easing or changing the engine speeds to complete the
maneuver and fair away to the desired heading. Here again, it
might be advisable to point out that in case of doubt, a tug will ease
the mind, if not actually accomplishing much more than could be
done without it.
In practically all cases of going into a pier or a nest moored
alongside the pier, with tide or wind on the beam at the final ap-
proach, tug assistance is recommended unless there is a generous
fifty feet beam space to enter. There are numerous solutions to
these conditions which may be found in any of the old familiar
standard editions of seamanship. The point to be emphasized
here, perhaps, is to plan the approach as shown in Fig. 12, also to
get a forecastle line to the dock promptly, and, as soon as possible,
a line from the vicinity of the motor boat skids, this latter line to


  p. 1215 (#123)                      #

1925]
1215
Destroyer Handling Alongside
act as an all-important temporary spring line. In connection with
this latter line, it would be well to lead it outside of everything,
bending on a heaving line carried to the forecastle, so as to get it
ashore pronto!
The difference between making a land-
ing at a pier and alongside a ship is that
in the case of a ship, it is all-important to
place the bow right, for usually and even-
tually the stern will take care of itself,
the same forces being at work on both
ships. In the case of a pier, it may be all-
important to get the stern in at the same
time. Also, at piers, currents may be
running differently inside the pier-head
line and local conditions may cause eddies
embarrassing to a stranger. Under diffi-
cult conditions, it might be well to land
alongside the pierhead, if possible, and
then to work into the slip by use of lines
Fig. 12
and moderate use of engines.
An Ethic or Two.-In concluding these notes, a hint in the di-
rection of cooperation in handling lines and “preparing the side"
is inserted. When advance notice is received that another de-
stroyer is coming alongside, the side should be cleared promptly, a
spare fender or two and the same number of heaving lines should
be dug up from the forward hold-or, if necessary and possible,
borrowed—and enough crew provided to handle the visitor's lines
with dispatch. If time provides and an anchor Aluke protrudes, the
anchor should be decked if conditions are adverse for the visitor.
It cheers the visitor's eyes to see such consideration, especially
among his own division mates.
If by chance, a slight contretemps occurs in going alongside, it
is but courtesy to send over the carpenter's mate with his “kit” to
repair stanchions and such as may have suffered.
Another point of ethics comes to mind. Conversation, except a
warning of danger, should not be attempted with a ship handler in
action, either from his own bridge or from adjacent ships. It is the
last straw for a nervous man and fills his soul with undying hatred.


  p. 1216 (#124)                      #

1216
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Many more "wrinkles” have flashed across the writer's memory,
but time, space, and patience must be respected. After we had
worried through these notes, chewing meanwhile through our pipe-
stem, we presented the result to Captain J— of the U.S.S.
V- the morning following his experience related. It was a
very cold morning off Culebra, but the nip in the air didn't cool
the writer's ardor one quarter as much as Captain J- 's scowl
as he perused the opening paragraphs. In the next two hours,
however, it was one of those rare occasions our division was at
anchor for the morning—the situation eased, and during the dis-
cussion of destroyer handling, Captain J-- uttered an expressive
fancy which has stuck in our memory and is quoted in closing :
“Destroyers are whimsical crafts, of great power, quick to respond
to keen handling, and a pleasure to those seamen who treat them
with just appreciation of their sensitive natures.”


  p. 1217 (#125)                      #

DIESEL ENGINES FOR CAPITAL SHIPS—
A MILITARY NECESSITY
By CAPTAIN A. M. PROCTOR, U. S. NAVY
ay
THE development of the Diesel engine for marine purposes
1 which began about 1910, has of late been proceeding at an
accelerating rate. There is much evidence, now available,
that it has arrived at a point where it is possible to consider it
seriously for capital ship installations. It is not intended, how-
ever, in this discussion, to touch more than briefly upon this phase
of the subject, but to point out one paramount military advantage
of this engine over all other forms of propulsion. This advantage,
greater perhaps than that which led to the adoption of the water
tube boiler, and that which later led to the adoption of the steam
turbine, may be stated as follows: A Diesel engined fleet will have
a cruising radius which, in any probable campaign, will render it
independent of logistic limitations.
In order to present graphically the evidence upon which this
statement is based the general characteristics of a Diesel engine
installation for the Oklahoma have been worked out, using such
published information as is available. The results are shown in
the accompanying sketches, Fig. I and Fig. 2.
The engine shown in this layout is a double acting two cycle
engine which has a cylinder volume sufficient to develop a power
equal to that of the present installation, with a piston speed and
mean effective pressure within the limits of present practice. This
piston speed can, however, be largely exceeded as will be shown
later.
The weight of the Diesel installation, with the necessary engine
auxiliaries, is based on an estimate of five pounds per cubic inch
cylinder volume. This is about eighty per cent of the weight of
the Worthington double acting engine and, in view of the fact
that this engine is a massively constructed commercial type, is
conservative.


  p. 1218 (#126)                      #

FIGURE
Present Installation.
No. Engine 3:- 2 cyl. triple erb.
Cyk diom J5:55 - 76
Stroke
RPM
120
Speed
20.5 knots
IHP
24500
AH P. (est) 22500
Piston speed 960 ft.min.
Total Mach.wt. 1998 tons.
Propelling Mach
wt=.69 x total 1379 tons
(3088960 lbs)
Wt. ber AMP
at 22 500 AM.P. 136.8 lbs.
with asoo tonsivel 3+ 41.
LE REEDS
diesel Installation,
No. engines - 4 2 cycle Soyl. 0.4.
Cy1 diam
24
Str.*:-
33. ars
R.P.M.
Specat
20.5 Inots.
A.M.
P armelin power) 22 300
Piston Speed 960 It mig.
Mep (Brake) 74 lbs. sq. im
Max. power of SR P.M. 30240
and golás mcp speed 218 trs.
Moc H Pat 1268 H
34360
piston speed (2187.7M)
and 90/bs Meb Propellers
filled lo permit screased
enqine speed)
U.SS ONLANOMA:-Sketch showing possible Diesel
1. Vol.
358300 cm
engine installation in present machinery space.
WI. per cu.in cyl.vel.
5.0 lbs.
Weight saved by Diesel installation - 579 tons.
Tolal weight propelling 1791500 lbs.
machinery
(800 tons)
Normal full fuel capacity (146* Displjo 4000 tons.
Wt.ber B.HP (225w alzost) 796 lbs.
Total luel capacity, utilizing extra
Wt.per B.H.P (34000) 52.7 lbs.
space made available.
5550 tons
Total Machinery Weight 1479 tons.
increased drait due to entra fuel 10 inches
Cruising radius:-95 Anot's 64800 mi. 12.mats 61400 miles.
Present location
15 Inols soooo miles
Alle Oynom Poom
(below pralcctve dece.
nepresent Dyno Roomsterlue |
- This space reclaimed trom uptate rooms
General Work Shop
Space - pre.
Distributio
Boora Poom.
This space
reclaimed' from Eng Room.
is space reclaimed tre
Fire 'Pooms.
Distribution
Boordfrue
Space present Peclaimed from
Engine Ros
avilioricu
Dynamo Poom. Engine poom available (Projected area
for Diesel Generators Mas present
Apreom
This space available for 150 tons -
additional fuel oil.
This spere,reclaimed from Frekvens
available for diesel Generators
and ausiliary machinery.
Foward
Dynamo
(present location)
---Thais
acerolable for 800
tons
92
30
00
66
06 70 02 00 78 76 72 72 zero
Length Engur
Engine Space soll.
(biesel)
--- Length present Logine and Boiler space rasth. -


  p. 1219 (#127)                      #

1925]
1219
Diesel Engines for Capital Ships.
The performance curves shown in Fig. 2 are based on the data
of the trials of the New York and Texas. They are practically
identical with that of the Oklahoma, of which there is no pub-
lished record.
The engine efficiency curve, used in determining the B.H.P.
curve, is plotted from the results obtained by Yarrow in tests of
a torpedo boat engine. These tests show a higher efficiency than
that of any other available record.
The fuel per B.H.P. curve is drawn from the results of a series
of tests made on a 1,000 B.H.P. Fullagar engine by Professor
W. H. Watkinson. The data of other tests shown are plotted as
a check on this curve.
The curve of fuel per B.H.P. has been used because this curve
can be drawn with a fair degree of accuracy below the lowest test
point, since it becomes tangent to the vertical coordinate at zero
power. For a similar reason the B.H.P. curve has been used,
rather than the I.H.P. curve. This curve starts at zero power and
there is no error at low powers due to doubt as to engine efficiency.
There are several interesting points which may be noted from
an examination of these curves: First, the exact coincidence be-
tween the points for the Worthington, the Sulzer and the Augs-
burg engines, with those of the Fullagar engine. Second, the fact
that all of the fuel per I.H.P. curves show a decreasing consump-
tion down to about thirty pounds M.E.P., and that, even at the no
load point, the fuel per B.H.P. is not appreciably greater than at
normal loads. In this respect the Diesel engine shows a marked
superiority over all other prime movers. Third, the curves for the
two cycle engines, both fuel per B.H.P. and fuel per I.H.P., show
a marked break above seventy pounds M.E.P., while the curves
for the four cycle engines show a very slight increase up to about
125 pounds M.E.P. This, however, is unimportant. For normal
powers it is not necessary to go above seventy pounds M.E.P., and
for the higher powers the fuel consumption is of minor importance.
In computing the cruising radius an allowance of five tons per
day has been made for auxiliary consumption. This is based on
the detailed estimate below.
Water distilled, using triple effect evaporators using steam from
low pressure boilers, 12,000 gals. i tb. oil = 14 tbs. steam =
25 IDs. water. Fuel oil per day....
3,840 lbs.


  p. 1220 (#128)                      #

FIGURE 2.
5000 toas fuell
radius 58400 miles
af 9.5 ftnots.
Radius at 12 Knot's
53300 miles
30000
30000
(No allowance has been
This will decrease the swisine
5000
Radius at 15 knots
45 000 miles.
000
gradius-Speed
Mesh El ax 100%
Powet. 92%
(Recip. Steam Engine
Yarrow
35400
EH-% Full Power(1.11.P)
Cruising Radius -mile
-Cowsing Red based
on data from H
this curve. P
KNormal full
powet 120.P.
and 74 lbs, M.E..
U.S.S.Oklahoma:-
performance curves for
Diesel Installation.
1 Worthington 2 Cycle DA
+ Compressor and scaveng
purp included
-- Full agar 2 cycle
opposed piston Compres.
and scoreng pumb included.
-:- B.A. Exp. Icyla
Cycle without compressor,
BA Exp. Allowance for
208 separately driven comp.
TO- Aorangi' 2 Cycle s. Á.
Sulzer. Shop tests. Air
compressors, but no scan.
blowers ,
1504 Horang," 60 hour sea
test, blowers and
Compressors included
* Augsburg a cycle D.A.
full power shop test
with compressor and
blower.
Te +--B.4. Exp. fuel - 1.H.P.
X--- Augsburg, (constant
speed) fuel-1.H.P.
10----Fullegar, fuel - iH.P
25 ---- 4 Cycle engine fyell.n.d
(constant speed."chelaley)
7 orangi" fuel LHP.

15000
HP
Mee
B.H.P -
sols
/B.H.Pas
68763
de-MOA
Fuel - B.H.P. lbs.
betd-/HA
OCH
SOOC
or to
Speed cones-
ponding to lowest
point on' fuel
consumption Curve
' 15.7 knots
RPM -33
o o
Sbeed, nots.
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20 21
189
30 20
10
90 9 70 60 50 40
Engine Elficiency, %
150
16 . 1
Me pins 89.10 (Brate HP)
15 100
% Full Power (for use with curves Mep and fuel B.NP only)


  p. 1221 (#129)                      #

1935)
1221
Diesel Engines for Capital Ships
1221
Diesel driven generators with 300 K.W. mean load at .60 lbs. fuel
per K.W. hour. Fuel per day.............
Heating and miscellaneous. Fuel per day.....................
4,320 lbs.
3,040 Ibs.
Total fuel (5 tons per day).
11,200 tbs.
The above estimate makes no allowance for the use of the heat of
the exhaust gases. The water allowed is that for crew use alone,
as the large amount required for make up feed is entirely elimi-
nated with the Diesel installation.
The cruising radius shown in Fig. 2 is based on a fuel capacity
of 5,000 tons. The total fuel capacity shown in Fig. I is 5,500
tons. Inspection of this plan will show that an additional supply
of 1,000 tons can be carried by utilizing a part of the space saved
by the Diesel installation, making the total fuel capacity approxi-
mately 6,500 tons. This will give a radius at 76,000 miles at 9.5
knots, 69,000 miles at 12 knots, and 58,000 miles at 15 knots.
The installation here shown is far short of what will be required
in future installations. It has been presented for the purpose of
giving a picture of what might be expected with a Diesel installa-
tion, in comparison with an existing installation. The power de-
veloped in the Oklahoma is far short of that of the later ships,
although the space occupied is about the same.
The maximum power capable of development with the Diesel in-
stallation shown is about 30,000 B.H.P. which is about the same
as that of the latest ships. The space occupied will be about one
half and the weight will be materially less, notwithstanding the
popular impression, based on the weights of slow speed heavy duty
engines, that the Diesel engine is inherently a heavy machine.
Before taking up the question of really large power installa-
tions some recent history of Diesel engine development will be
briefly reviewed. As early as 1910 the German Admiralty became
convinced as to the future of the Diesel engine for naval pur-
poses, and authorized two of the leading builders in Germany to
undertake the development of units of 12,000 B.H.P. per engine.
The efforts of Krupp, one of these firms, resulted in failure, but
a wealth of information was obtained before the work was dis-
continued on account of the war. The other firm was the Nurn-
berg branch of the M.A.N. Two six cylinder engines of 12,000
B.H.P. were built, and overload trials as high as 16,000 B.H.P.


  p. 1222 (#130)                      #

1222
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
were successfully completed. These engines were destroyed in
accordance with the armistice conditions, but as a result of the
experience gained, the present double acting Augsburg engine was
built. This engine has passed through the development stage, and
it is in a study of the results of the trials of the single cylinder
experimental engine that we find the greatest hope that the Diesel
engine for capital ships has arrived. The characteristics of this
engine are as follows:
Cylinder diameter ..
.....31.5 in.
Stroke.
........41.34 in.
R.P.M.
100
Piston speed
.......689 ft. per min.
B.H.P.
... 1,100
I.H.P.
.....1,300
Mechanical eff.
M.I.P.
....90 Ibs. per sq. in.
M.E.P.
........76.5 tbs. per sq. in.
.....
.85%
With a separately driven air compressor the mechanical efficiency
would be about ninety per cent, which is comparable to a steam
engine.
If the power of this engine is below that required for large
power installations, without an abnormally large number of
cylinders, it must be remembered that this engine is conservatively
designed for continuous operation. For the short periods for
which full power is required with naval engines a very much higher
power is practicable. Experience with steam engines indicates
that the power permissible for full power is about double that
which can be maintained continuously. The mean effective pres-
sure of this engine cannot be materially increased. Therefore any
increase in power must be obtained by an increase in the piston
speed. A consideration of this factor brings out a vast advantage
of the two cycle engine over all other types, which is its ability to
run at high piston speeds with moderate bearing loads. Investi-
gation, undertaken with a view to determining the limit of piston
speed, discloses the fact that a two cycle double acting engine can
be run at a piston speed of 1,400 feet per minute with a materially
smaller bearing load than many single acting engines now in suc-
cessful operation. This is due to the fact that, on every stroke,
there is a balance between the inertia pressure and the compres-


  p. 1223 (#131)                      #

1925)
:
Diesel Engines for Capital Ships
1223
sion pressure which relieves, the bearings of a large part of the
piston load. With this value of piston speed the power of the .
engine will be doubled, which brings it within reach of capital ship
installations.
There is one other feature of the Augsburg engine in which we
find justification for the belief that cylinder diameters large enough
for the greatest power requirement are practicable. This is the
method of handling the heat strains set up by the temperature
differences. In this engine a thin cast iron liner is fitted inside of
a steel jacket with the cooling water between the two. This has
the effect of decreasing, by something more than one-half, the heat
drop through the cylinder walls. It can be shown that, without
producing compression strains greater than cast iron can safely
withstand, the tension strains can be practically eliminated in
cylinders up to about forty inches in diameter. The cylinder
diameter is limited by the height available, since the ratio of effec-
tive stroke to cylinder diameter cannot be reduced below unity
without an undue increase in fuel consumption.
In order to keep the engine below the lower protective deck, in
the present design of ships, the cylinder diameter will be limited to
about thirty-four inches. This is not materially greater than the
cylinder diameter of the 12,000 B.H.P. Nurnberg engine, and is
five inches less than the diameter of the single acting 2,000 B.H.P.
Sulzer engine built in 1914, which in the words of Professor
Stodola “ran faultlessly.”
The following table shows what might be expected from a
cylinder with a diameter of thirty-four inches with moderate values
of piston speed and mean effective pressure:
Cylinder diameter ......
Stroke
R.P.M.
Piston speed ..
M.E.P. (Brake) .....
B.H.P.
...........34 in.
..42 in.
.....175
.....1,225 ft. per min.
......90 IDs. per sq. in.
...........2,579
With a four shaft arrangement, with a twelve cylinder engine on
each shaft, the total power would be about 124,000 B.H.P. Under
more extreme conditions, with some sacrifice of propeller efficiency,
a piston speed of 1,400 feet per minute would give about 175,000


  p. 1224 (#132)                      #

1224
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
B.H.P. With a five shaft arrangement, and 1,400 feet piston
speed, the power would be approximately 220,000 B.H.P.
It is not suggested that the Augsburg engine, or any other en-
gine, is available for installation in capital naval ships. The ratio
of height to stroke in this engine is too great to permit its installa-
tion within the available height limit, and it is doubtful if the
scavenging efficiency, necessary for the high mean effective pres-
sure required, can be maintained at a high piston speed. It is sub-
mitted, however, that, with the present state of knowledge, the de-
sign and development of a suitable engine does not present in-
superable difficulties. Considering the present state of the capital
ship industry it is not probable that any private firm would be
willing to undertake this development. It must be undertaken by
a governmental agency. This work will cost a great deal of money,
and require a very considerable period of time. When accom-
plished it will produce a revolution in the design of naval ships
which will justify all of the money, time and energy expended.
In view of the rapidity with which Diesel engine development is
proceeding abroad, it is probable that any ship now designed with
any other form of motive power will be obsolete before completed.


  p. 1225 (#133)                      #

SOME PHYSICAL ASPECTS OF FLYING
By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER R. G. Davis (MC), U. S. Navy
THE degree of success attained in aviation is dependent upon
I the physical and mental make-up of its personnel. Candi-
dates for the Naval Air Service little appear to appreciate
the high standard required by the Department in their selection and
maintenance. A brief discussion of the physical examination with
reference to the special senses and the effects of continued flying
may prove of interest especially to those contemplating entering
this branch of service.
Nationally and internationally the predominant interest in
military preparedness is centering about the development and
perfecting of the various types of aircraft and their relative value
in the first line of defense. The airplane is conceded to be of
indispensable importance in relation to our land and sea 'forces
and will play a leading part in another war, but perfect material
in ample quality and quantity will be of little assistance unless
serious and scientific thought is applied to the heart and brains of
the flying apparatus, namely the pilot.
During the early years of the World War all thought appears
to have been concerned with increasing the mechanical efficiency
of the plane with little or no consideration given to the selection
of the flier. It was a question of nerve among these no longer
fit for the apparently more arduous duties of the infantry and
artillery with the natural result of life measured in hours and a
tremendous loss of both personnel and material.
Unusual demands were put on the unselected material that only
the super-fit were capable of meeting. The physiological aspects
as well as the physical standards were neglected, the problems of
rarified air with its strain on the heart and nervous system were
not understood and the combined statistics of the Allies reveal the
startling fact that among all the crashes niney per cent were due to
defects in the pilots themselves and only two per cent due to the
enemy and the remaining eight per cent to faulty material. It is


  p. 1226 (#134)                      #

1226
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
unnatural for man to fly and the effects of low oxygen on defective
vision, balance and judgment were unappreciated while he was
sent hurtling through the air at terrific speed with his body in
rapidly changing positions. When attention was turned to a con-
sideration of these vital points and a raising of all standards
instituted, a marked decrease in the alarming ninety per cent was
noted and today with an increasing knowledge growing out of a
continued research we are accepting only the highest types of
physical and mental make-ups profiting by our lesson learned from
the bitter experience of the Allies.
The problems of air sickness, oxygen want, and the un-
precedented demands of the heart and nervous system have opened
a new field of preventive medicine investigation. The former
scant knowledge of life conditions at high altitudes obtained in
free ballooning has been greatly expanded by scientific studies on
Pikes Peak in the United States and Monte Rosa in Europe where
excellent data has been secured for comparative studies in physio-
logical change as produced in aviation.
During the war and subsequent years the War Department has
conducted an intensive research at a well equipped laboratory on
Long Island where a trained corps of workers are devoting all
their time to delving into physical problems of aviation both in the
selection and maintenance of the fier. Medical officers of both
services who receive special instruction in this laboratory are
assigned as flight surgeons to the various aviation centers, devoting
all their time to the welfare of the pilots, making frequent tests
and examinations, keeping them fit for the air and ever watchful
for the earliest signs of deterioration that left uncorrected would
result in disaster.
The effects of low oxygen on the heart and circulation are
studied in the low pressure chamber where the barometric pressure
may be reduced to any desired point, or on a rebreathing apparatus
where the percentage of oxygen is gradually lowered correspond-
ing to an actual flight. Thus we have two methods of producing
physiological effects as met with in aviation, the determining factor
being the low oxygen tension of the air. Slight changes from the
normal oxygen may produce incompetence of the circulatory
apparatus and bring to light hidden signs of cardiac insufficiency
and distress which would result in dilitation and collapse as the
strain of ascent increases.


  p. 1227 (#135)                      #

1925)
1227
Some Physical Aspects of Flying
The efficiency of the heart depends on the quality of its muscle,
its nutritive circulation “oxygen content" and an economical action
without unnecessary strain. Under reduced oxygen readjust-
ments and compensations are necessary such as more rapid respira-
tion and increased heart action to maintain the normal oxygen
tension. The optimum or superior physical type who shows no
evidence of strain at great altitudes does not suffer from the
noxious effects of low oxygen so long as his powers of compensa-
tion are equal to their task. Observations have shown that the
optimum type will compensate perfectly with little circulatory
strain and break with great suddenness when the limit of endurance
is reached, above 25,000 feet in the low pressure chamber and at
five and five-tenths to seven per cent of oxygen on the rebreather.
Subjects have stated that there is a feeling of buoyancy and well
being just before unconsciousness or collapse occurs.
Heart strain and nervous exhaustion produce fainting in the air
and rebreather tests confirm a sensitiveness to low oxygen. Similar
results are obtained from temporary indispositions following a bad
cold, recent illness, loss of sleep, fatigue, digestive disturbances
and alchololic excesses. The psychological tests are below normal,
all reactions are slowed and the subject becomes inefficient several
thousand feet below his normal ceiling which would prove fatal
on an actual flight. The break comes too suddenly to give any
safety warning; hence the vital importance of each pilot knowing
his limitations and keeping in the safety zone. The low pressure
chamber and rebreather permit a ceiling determination of all avia-
tion candidates without risk to limb or plane and a classification
of plane type assignment in accordance with the bodily resistance
to a reduced oxygen.
Prolonged strain in continued flying without proper intervals
of rest produce a condition of lowered efficiency known as stale-
ness. Bodily resources are either exhausted or unavailable, a
neurological limitation founded on chemical conditions. This may
appear in a cardio-respiratory type with symptoms of a shallow
and more frequent breathing, weak and increased pulse rate and
cold extremities; a nervous type with poor muscular control,
tremor of hands, eyelids and tongue, increased reflex nightmares
and insomnia; a muscular type showing a tenderness and flabbi-
ness with rheumatic pains. Any of these symptoms in an aviator
calls for an immediate rest, corrective dietetic measures and change


  p. 1228 (#136)                      #

1228
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
of environment. Continued duty under symptoms of staleness
may result in the loss of a pilot who otherwise, with appropriate
treatment of the early recognized signs of deterioration would
quickly stage a comeback and be saved to aviation.
Low oxygen has a marked effect on vision and brings out hidden
defects in muscle balance that hitherto have escaped skillful eye
examinations. Stereoscopic vision is essential to a proper judg-
ment of distance, and the depth perception of each eye must be
balanced to insure a proper leveling off for a landing. Visual
reaction time has been estimated at twenty one hundredths of a
second but it may be delayed by fatigue and excesses. Poor
landing causes are invariably and quickly revealed by eye room
tests in the absence of more evident physical disturbances. Visual
acuity is tested by refraction and eye grounds carefully examined
for any pathology or latent disease. The entire sensory equipment
must be acutely developed. Instant coordinated impulses reach the
brain and produce instinctive and intuitive responses. The per-
ception of vision, sound, tactile motion and the deep sensibilities
of muscle, joint and viscera are more intimately concerned with
flying. On the ground all motor coordinations are concerned with
the maintaining of a proper relation between the body and its
supporting element. All motor coordinations are concerned with
the control of the plane dependent upon the acuteness of sensory
perceptions.
The sense of motion is obtained from the inner ear whose
delicate semi-circular canals are arranged in three planes. They
contain a fluid that when set in motion stimulates minute sensory
end organs that impart the proper information to the brain result-
ing in the corresponding motor response to the muscular system.
The sensory nerves are connected with the motor nerves to the
eyes and the motion stimulus is manifested by the ocular move-
ments. Thus motion sense assumes a relatively greater importance
to flying than the other special senses and is thoroughly tested in
candidates by the rotational chair. Large numbers of tests have
established a normal as the subject is turned with the body in
different positions.
Motor responses are further tested by the falling sensations
produced as the subject attempts to correct body positions.
Normal is recorded when in accordance with fact, and dizziness or
vertigo results when contrary to fact.


  p. 1229 (#137)                      #

1925]
1229
Some Physicul Aspects of Flying
The sound producing mechanism comprising the external audi-
tory canal, drum and bones of the middle ear are carefully ex-
amined by inspection and sound tests. Any signs of drum per-
forations, questionable scars or marked retractions are causes for
rejection and histories of any ear trouble or blows on the head
are carefully analyzed. Rapid descents will perforate the thin and
scarred drums. Nasal passages must be free allowing no ob-
struction in breathing. Presence of post nasal catarrh is a cause
of ear trouble through blocking of the eustachian canal leading
from the throat to the middle ear.
The pilot is selected from among those showing a keen desire to
fly, preferably in the twenties, active, alert, quick in reactions
possessing a sporting abandon, yet conservative and balanced in
mental makeup in addition to a sound and robust physique. The
family history is carefully considered and the history from early
childhood up to the present is analyzed. Early environment,
education and social conditions determining the personality trend
and development is traced in all the by-paths. Does the mental
organization as to temperment, intelligence and volition show un-
safe tendencies, and does the candidate react normally to his
environment and what are the personality trends, resistances and
potentialities? Among the points considered entirely favorable for
the optimum type are, youth, negative family history, single, good
scholarship in high school and college, ability in athletics, successes
in civil life, no excesses or dissipations, moderation in the use
of tobacco, no alcohol, normal digestion, robust physique, keen
desire to fly and cooperation of family in all that pertains to flying.
The temperament should be cheerful, stable, aggressive and self
reliant; intelligence, precise, alert and resourceful; volition,
energetic, quick, controlled and with a good tenacity of purpose.
After the flier has successfully passed the searching physical and
mental examination and completed his course of training, the flight
surgeon is concerned with the maintenance of his efficiency. The
effects of fatigue, overwork, loss of sleep, digestive disturbances,
worries, alcohol, etc., that tend to nervous exhaustion are care-
fully explained as each may dull the sensibilities showing the re-
action time to that fraction of a second resulting in a crash, other-
wise avoidable. The flight surgeon is constantly on the flying line
in daily contact with the pilots. He knows each one intimately,
goes aloft as indication arises observing any deviation from the


  p. 1230 (#138)                      #

1230
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
.
normal and at once institutes remedial measures when indicated.
He is ever striving to keep the pilot fit and only recommends
grounding when signs of deterioration are present.
The subject of goggles has been given much thought and numer-
ous types have been tried out with a wide difference of opinion
as to the type that combines all the essentials to a comfortable
and proper protection to the eyes. They should insure a wide
visual field, preferably a lens tinted with yellow-green, non-
breakable and surrounded by a large layer of wool padding to
insure comfort and protection to the frontal sinuses. Indirect
ventilation is necessary to prevent the formation of vapor and
frosting at high altitudes. The nose bridge should be adjustable
to fit the inter-pupillary distance and should not produce pressure
pains. Comfort should be experienced in addition to the other
essential points as the goggles are the one most important aid to
safety in flight.
Few men can continue nose breathing above 10,000 to 12,000
feet and must resort to mouth breathing with increased rate in
order to balance the compensatory changes. An oxygen apparatus
can be supplied the planes allowing for deficiency of high altitude
to insure the pilot possession of his faculties at all times. The
pilot's comfort in his plane is of prime importance. The body
temperature is preserved with heated cock-pits and electrically
heated suits. The former close cowls have been cut away and all
surfaces cushioned that have contributed to fractures of the skull.
Parachutes have been added to the safety equipment and more
and more the conservation of the pilot is resulting as the former
predominant thought of mechanical efficiency has been divided with
the selection and safety of the pilot. The secret of prolonged
usefulness is being kept fit by frequent overhauls when the pilot
shows the first signs of nervous exhaustion.
It is believed that safety flight develops from frequent flying
and one should immediately separate himself from aviation when
the prime requisite for a successful aviator namely, the keen desire
to fly, is waning or absent. After years of intensive research and
study there is a unified conclusion that there must be clearness of
mind, quickness of thought, keenness of judgment and moral
courage to insure the maximum efficiency required in the pilot who
would contribute to a safer aviation.


  p. 1231 (#139)                      #

DISCUSSION
What Might Have Happened at Jutland
(See page 1143, July, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER H. H. Frost, U. S. Navy.—Many students
of Jutland have doubtless conjectured as to what might have happened
had Admiral Scheer considered it advisable to adhere to his original plan
of trying to catch the British battle cruisers between two fires as they ad-
vanced at full speed to the southeastward in pursuit of Vice Admiral
Hipper. It has now been intimated that the Germans lost a chance to win
the war at Jutland.
The idea of surrounding the enemy and wiping out his entire force has
always been an attractive one. But how often has it succeeded? Hannibal
accomplished it in the open field at Cannae with perfect success; he suc-
ceeded by ambuscade at Lake Trasimene and was partially successful at
the Trebia ; the effectiveness of his combinations was enhanced by the in-
efficiency and carelessness of the Roman generals. Caesar also accomplished
this feat against an half-hearted enemy in Spain more by intrigue than by
fighting. The Germans, with the aid of overwhelming numbers and a
neutral frontier, were able to surround the French at Sedan. Hinden-
burg was able to repeat this feat with partial success at Tannenburg and
in the Winter Battle in East Prussia; Falkenhayn was successful on a
small scale at the Red Tower Pass. This about completes the list of
"Cannaes" in land warfare; even Austerlitz cannot be classed as such a
victory.
In naval warfare no occassion where an enemy naval force on the open
sea was ever caught between two fires comes to mind; that is, a case where
the enemy force was destroyed; there have been some cases where a
flank was partially enveloped without any marked effect.
The reasons why a surrounding attack is almost impossible are readily
apparent.
First, there is the enormous difficulty of coordinating the enveloping
forces. If such handling of military forces is difficult, how much more
complicated must it be to coordinate a number of forces in the attempt
to surround an enemy naval force superior in speed. This is difficult enough
when the commander-in-chief can see all of his forces and the enemy that
he is attempting to surround. If one of his forces is out of sight and he
can obtain its position only by delayed and inaccurate reports, this doubles
his problem; if, in addition, the enemy force must be reported by one of
our forces which does not even know its own position it requires no proof
to show that it is probably one of the most difficult problems in naval


  p. 1232 (#140)                      #

1232
[July
U. S. Vaval Institute Proceedings
tactics. We have only to note that Hood, endeavoring to join Beatty, ap-
peared on the farther side of the German fleet, while Jellicoe ran into
Beatty where he did not expect him and found the German fleet in an en-
tirely unexpected position.
Second, if one of our forces is in contact with the enemy, it is liable to
be destroyed if we delay to arrange a trap; this is particularly the case
where our force is inferior in both speed and power.
Third, our separated enveloping forces are liable to be beaten in detail
if there is any failure in the enveloping attack.
Fourth, other forces of the enemy fleet not yet sighted may appear and
attack our separated forces.
As - against these disadvantages, our enveloping forces have the sole
advantage of surprise. The fact that our forces can open fire almost as
soon as they are sighted by the enemy gives us a chance of inflicting dam-
age before the enemy realized the change in the situation; the delay in the
turn-away of the fifth battle squadron at 4:50 is an illustration. This ad-
vantage is decreased by two further facts: first, the enemy may have light
cruisers spread in advance and on the flanks of the force we are endeavor-
ing to surround; second, the use of destroyers and smoke screens provide
a force caught in a dangerous situation with a means of disengaging itself
without heavy loss. The battle furnished illustrations of both these facts.
With these principles in mind, let us now examine the actual tactical
situation.
At 3:45 Admiral Scheer received a despatch from Vice Admiral Hipper
that he was engaging six battle cruisers on a southeasterly course. It
must be remembered that the fifth battle squadron had not been sighted by
Admiral Hipper at this time and no report was made of its presence. By
4:05, the battle fleet having closed up, course was set to the northwest and
speed increased to 15 knots; at 4:20 P. M., course was changed to west.
The purpose of these movements was to "bring the enemy between two
fires."
Just as the last change of course was being made a despatch was re-
ceived which altered the situation completely. "While this alteration of
course of the main fleet was in progress," reports Admiral Scheer, "the
II scouting group reported that a British squadron of five battleships was
joining in the action. The position of the I scouting group, which was
now opposed by six battle cruisers and five battleships, might become
critical. In consequence, everything depended upon effecting a junction
with the I scouting group as soon as possible: I therefore altered course
back to north."
Before the receipt of this signal the conditions had been unusually favor-
able for Admiral Scheer's plan. If the difficulties of coordination were
great and there was not a very large chance of trapping the British battle
cruisers, the Germans themselves were running no risks and if the com-
bination failed they would be little worse off than if they had not attempted
it. In the first place, the German battle cruisers, being in an inferiority


  p. 1233 (#141)                      #

1925]
1233
Discussion
of but five to six in numbers and only about 2 knots in speed, were in no
particular danger while the trap was being prepared. In the second place,
the enveloping forces would be in no danger of being beaten in detail by
such a weak enemy force. In the third place, as only battle cruisers and
light forces had been sighted, the battle cruiser fleet alone was on the
scene, and as no battleships had yet been attached to this fleet, there was
little danger of the dispersed German forces being attacked by superior
British forces suddenly coming onto the battlefield.
Now, however, all this was changed. First, the entrance of the fifth
battle squadron into the engagement did render the situation of the I scout-
ing group critical. Not only might this situation appear critical to Scheer,
but it undoubtedly was critical. “The gunnery superiority,” reads the
official report, "and advantageous tactical position were distinctly on our
side, until ai 4:19 P. M., a new squadron, consisting of four or five ships
of the Queen Elizabeth class, with a considerable superiority in speed, ap-
peared from a northwesterly direction, and took part in the action with an
opening range of about 20,000 meters. This rendered the position of our
cruisers critical. The new opponent fired with remarkable rapidity and
accuracy, the accuracy being partly due to the impossibility of returning his
fire. At 4:26 P. M., the distance between the opposing battle cruisers was
about 12,000 meters and between our battle cruisers and the Queen Eliza-
beth's about 18,000 meters."
It is interesting to note that the fifth battle squadron closed the range on
the German battle cruisers 2,000 meters in seven minutes, thus leading the
Germans to believe that it had a superiority in speed. The official report
of Rear Admiral Evan Thomas shows that he decreased the range to 17,000
yards at one time. Another proof of the critical situation of the I scouting
group is that the second leader of the destroyers ordered all of his available
destroyers to attack to "relieve the pressure" on the battle cruisers. This
he did on his own initiative. It is true that the attacks of the German
destroyers and the turn-away of the German battle cruisers to avoid the
British destroyers did ultimately relieve the pressure. It is also true that,
had he so desired, Hipper might have skirmished at long range with Beatty
instead of voluntarily meeting him in fair fight; in this way he would have
avoided getting caught at moderate range by the fifth battle squadron, but
he would never have won the splendid success over the British battle cruisers
-successes probably greater than any which would have resulted from a
trap and particularly favorable from a moral viewpoint in that they were
won in fair open fight over superior enemy forces.
As the battle actually was fought, Scheer was able to come to the assist-
ance of Hipper at 4:45; in accordance with the proposed form of the trap,
he would not have been able to open fire for thirty additional minutes during
which time a lot might have happened.
Second, the danger of trying to surround a force of eleven capital ships
with twenty-one was very much greater than the plan to trap six battle
cruisers. It must be remembered that Hipper had not been able to inform


  p. 1234 (#142)                      #

1234
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Scheer of the loss of the two British battle cruisers and that the fifth battle
squadron was reported as having five and not four ships. Also, the German
second line battleships, mounting only four 11-inch guns and having but
18 knots speed, could hardly be counted on to surround a force mounting
almost exclusively 13.5-inch and 15-inch guns and having a minimum speed
of 25 knots. Under the changed conditions, it was evident that if Hipper
was to be one of the surrounding forces he would have to be reinforced.
Scheer thus had the problem of simultaneously reinforcing Hipper and using
the remainder for an enveloping attack. It is even proposed to divide the
German battle fleet into three separate detachments, in addition to Hipper's
force. The arrangements to provide for four separate forces simultaneously
surounding two enemy forces of superior speed—and all this on the basis
of delayed eports received from a distance—would certainly have taxed the
skill of a Napoleon and a Nelson rolled into one. If anything went wrong,
the Germans were themselves in danger of having one of their enveloping
forces beaten as the enemy broke through the circle.
Third, the presence of battleships indicated the proximity of the British
battle fleet. This was the first occasion on which the fifth battle squadron
operated with the battle cruiser fleet and even in this case it resulted from
chance and not design. If the British battle fleet were to come upon the
Germans while their forces were dispersed in the attempt to surround
Beatty and Evan Thomas, they would have found themselves in a dangerous
position, particularly as they were inferior in speed.
Fourth, even if the envelopment were made successfully, it is very prob-
lematical as to how many British ships would have been caught, as, with
their superior speed and strong light cruiser and destroyer forces, they could
have disengaged themselves from at least half of the German forces and
could have fought the action on even terms, with the disadvantage, however,
that any of their ships reduced in speed would be lost.
Finally, even assuming that the entire British force were destroyed with-
out loss to the Germans, the battle, while increasing greatly German pres-
tige, would by itself have had no decisive effect. There was no question
of winning the war by such an action. The British would still have had
twenty-eight battleships and five fast battleships or battle cruisers as
against seventeen battleships and five battle cruisers; they had also four
capital ships nearing completion as against three for the Germans. Count-
ing all of these capital ships they had a total of thirty-seven ships against
twenty-five, still a very good margin of superiority. The British also had an
incomparable advantage in the strategic position and a big superiority in
light cruisers, destroyers and second line ships of all types.
Everything considered, it is believed that Scheer made a correct and
normal decision in coming immediately to Hipper's assistance; the risks to
be run in attempting to surround the British forces were out of proportion
to the probable successes to be gained. The admiral later proved that he
was not averse to runing risks, so it is certain that he did not give up his
plan of envelopment because of any lack in resolution.


  p. 1235 (#143)                      #

1925)
1235
Discussion
Now we will consider the conduct of Admiral Hipper during this ep-
isode. He has been criticized because of a signal sent at 4:20 P. M., report-
ing the entry of British battleships into the action. A perusal of the official
German report, however, shows that this despatch was sent, not by Hipper,
but by the commander of the II scouting group in the light cruiser Frank-
furt. Therefore, we have not the slightest information concerning any
despatches sent between Hipper and Scheer in either direction after the
report from Hipper that he was engaging battle cruisers; even this signal
was sent before the action actually began. Did Scheer send any instructions
or even information concerning his plan to catch the British battle cruisers
between two fires ? Did Hipper send any information concerning his move-
ments and those of the enemy? Until we can definitely answer these ques-
tions our criticism and comments will not be worth much. However, if
no such despatches were sent, will it not be charitable to assume, until we
have the facts before us, that there was some good reason why they were
not sent?
While it was Hipper's duty to keep his commander-in-chief informed of
the developments of the battle cruiser action, it must be admitted that a
commander engaged in a desperate fight against overwhelming numbers
has many other even more important things of which to think. If one looks
at the track of the German battle cruisers during this time and notes the
numerous changes of course and formation, it will be recognized that Hip-
per was enjoying a most busy afternoon. The situation was so changeable
that a report of the happenings at any one particular time would have been
of little value, and might even have been misleading, unless supplemented
by a series of reports announcing all of the new events; this was clearly
impracticable from a communications viewpoint and would have given
Scheer a mass of conflicting information; many mistakes must have been
made in the position of the German forces and the information concerning
the enemy forces, as is illustrated by the inaccurate reports of Commodore
Goodenough, who has been justly praised for his excellent work in send-
ing in information,
Could Hipper well have sent a reassuring signal to Scheer at any time
before he disengaged himself at about 4:40, when he was already in visual
touch with Scheer? Did he even know that the two British battle cruisers
had been lost? This is by no means certain. Von Hase states that he did
not notice the loss of the Indefatigable. The Queen Mary could not have
been reported until 4:30, only two minutes before Scheer saw the ships in
action and ten minutes after he had given up his plan to catch the British
battle cruisers between two fires. Even at that, could a commander en-
gaging an equal force of enemy battle cruisers consider the situation re-
assuring when four battleships, armed with 15-inch guns against his il- and
12-inch guns, had gained 2,000 yards in seven minutes and was bringing his
rear ship under fire at 17,000 yards and hitting? Von Hase states that the
Derfflinger was zigzagging to avoid the fire of the British battleships. The
leader of the destroyers and the commander of the IX flotilla both decided


  p. 1236 (#144)                      #

1236
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
to attack on their own initiative to relieve the situation. The situation was
not relieved until Scheer was on the scene.
Furthermore, a statement in the official report, at about 5:20, may have
some significance: "He (Hipper) was unable to report this, as intended, for
a short time previously the main and auxiliary W/T stations in his flag-
ship (Lutzow) had been put out of action by a heavy shell."
Under the circumstances, it would seem somewhat premature to accuse
Admiral Hipper of having caused the breakdown of the German plan at
Jutland. At any rate, it cannot be denied that he did some pretty nice
fighting and maneuvering that May afternoon with results not soon to be
forgotten by the naval profession-results as great, in our opinion, as any
that were probable in an attempt to surround in the open sea a force of ten
capital ships with superior speed, supported by numerous light cruisers and
destroyers, always remembering that the grand fleet might have come upon
the scene and surprised the Germans while in the execution of their plan.
Diesel Engines for Capital Ships—A Military Necessity
(See page 1217, July, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
REAR ADMIRAL C. W. Dyson, U. S. Navy.—I have read with great
interest Captain Proctor's article and am free to confess that he makes
out a very strong case for the adoption of the Diesel engine for capital
ship propulsion.
I am afraid, however, that he is unduly optimistic and counts upon the
availability of this type of power producer for much higher powers than
it can be used for on board ship.
He neglects the question of the propeller entirely except in one paragraph,
where he states, “Under more extreme conditions, with some sacrifice of
propeller efficiency, a speed of 1,400 feet per minute would give about
175,000 B.H.P.”
A four-shaft Diesel arrangement, with revolutions 175, could undoubtedly
be fitted on board our latest battleships if suitable engines could be obtained,
but for any considerable power over that which is now fitted on those
vessels consideration of tip clearances between the propellers and the hull
and between adjacent propellers places such limitations on the diameters
of the propellers that can be carried, that we are driven to increase in
speed of revolutions in order that the propellers with these limited diameters
may be able efficiently to absorb the power,
It is very doubtful whether Diesel engines, arranged on four shafts, can
be used for the development of any propulsive power much in excess of
that of our latest battleships, and it is an absolute impossibility to use them
for such powers as those of our light cruisers and aeroplane carriers, both
on account of the necessary limitations of piston speeds of the engines and
the resultant low revolutions of the propellers.


  p. 1237 (#145)                      #

1925]
1237
Discussion
Diesel Engines for Capital Ships—A Military Necessity
(See page 1217, July, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
REAR ADMIRAL J. K. Robison, U. S. Navy.—Captain Proctor's interesting
and timely article gives the general proposition of machinery for naval
vessels without, it seems to me, consideration of all the factors involved.
The tendency of all engineering progress is toward an increase in the
amount of useful work to be derived from the thermal unit of the fuel.
Upon this basis the future, as Captain Proctor so ardently argues, lies in
the use of Diesel engines. For the Navy, however, the prime essential is
neither efficiency of the thermal engine nor even low weight or cost.
First, naval machinery must be safe to operate; second, it must be reliable ;
it must be possible for a ship's force, composed of such material as we
have on naval vessels, to operate and to maintain naval machinery in such
condition as always to be capable of whatever service it was designed to
render,
Naval machinery is usually operated at a small fraction of its maximum
power. Usually also it is necessary that this machinery be ready to develop
full power upon demand. One of the prime limitations is that of weight
and space required for its installation in a vessel. Machinery should be
such as will permit its being placed entirely below the water line to secure
the most complete protection against the attack of an enemy.
In determining the machinery that we should install upon any new vessel
it is necessary to take into account not only the present state of the art of
machinery design and manufacture, but also such considerations as have been
above suggested. Conservatism may be variously defined either as "old
fogyism” or as safety. Any naval vessel may, at some time, bear in itself
the onus of maintaining the national honor. It is my personal and official
opinion that progress that is enduring is made by steps rather than by
jumps. It is wiser to make improvements than to attempt a possible but
improbable miracle.
Diesel Engines for Capital Ships—A Military Necessity
(See page 1217, July, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
COMMANDER S. M. ROBINSON, U. S. Navy.—This article is a very timely
one as it brings forward for discussion a subject that is being given the
greatest amount of thought and consideration at the present time by all
officers who are interested in or responsible for the design of naval
machinery. The advantages that would accrue to a fleet due to the in-
creased cruising radius of Diesel engine ships are so well known that they
need not be dwelt upon especially.
However, insofar as the methods of obtaining these results are con-
cerned, it is not believed that an installation of the type outlined in this
paper is feasible at the present time, nor is it believed that the tendency of
design points toward that means as a final solution. Experience with Diesel


  p. 1238 (#146)                      #

1238
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
engines on submarines has shown conclusively that the smaller engines are
not only more reliable, but are actually lighter per horsepower than are the
larger engines, and it is believed that installations of high power with
Diesel engines for military ships will be limited to small high-speed engines
using some one of the various forms of reduction gear that are being tried
out at the present time.
Service-Since-Graduation vs. Age-in-Grade Retirement
(See Page 737, May, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
CAPTAIN J. K. TaussiG, U. S. Navy.—Commander McCain has given a
very complete and lucid estimate of the situation in regard to the effect,
or rather the differences in effect, that would be felt by the members of the
class of 1907 should the present laws in regard to forced retirements con-
tinue in force and that which would be produced should the law be changed
to one in which length-of-service retirement is substituted for age-in-grade.
The first thing that impresses one after reading the paper is that, with
the assumptions as given, the same number, or practically the same number
of forced retirements will take place under either system. This is because
the figures are based on an assumption that the lengths of service since
graduation which would be used in a change in the basic law correspond
nearly exactly, for the average age of officers, to the ages at which the
present law requires all officers to retire if not promoted.
It is seen from this that the advocated change from age-in-grade retire-
ment is based entirely on the effect on certain individuals and not on the
effect on the service as a whole. Commander McCain has shown that the
proposed change would not materially affect the total number of officers
of the class of 1907 who are eventually promoted, but that it would very
materially affect the relative chances of some of the individuals in that class.
The writer of this discussion has held right along that the effect on a
few individuals is not the criterion for making a change in the present basic
law. The real trouble for the class of 1907 is not so much with which
individuals, the young or the old men, will have a better chance for pro-
motion, but is in the fact that, whichever method is in force, such a small
percentage of the class will be promoted.
The remedy for this situation is not to be found in the change to
length-of-service retirement. It can not be entirely remedied under any
conditions. But the situation for this class, as well as for all classes, can
be based materially, if, under the basic law, certain adjustments are made in
the various percentages in grades, and in the ages at which forced retire-
ments will take place. Such adjustments will not only benefit the class of
1907, but they would also have a favorable effect on the entire service, not
only insofar as individuals are concerned, but also for entire classes. These
adjustments will require the lowering of the ages at which lieutenant com-
manders and commanders are forced to retire. At present those near the
top of these lists are considerably below the retiring ages, so the sooner


  p. 1239 (#147)                      #

1925]
1239.
Discussion
these adjustments are made the better it will be. That is these retiring ages
can now be reduced without forcing out unduly large numbers of com-
manders and lieutenant commanders, but if the necessary change is delayed
too long there will be an abnormal disruption the first year it is placed in
effect.
The conclusion drawn is that we waste our time in attempting to obtain
legislation which simply changes the chances for promotion of a few indi-
viduals and does not improve the situation for the service at large. What
is needed is a smoothing out of the promotion curve throughout the entire
service. It has previously been pointed out, and is here repeated on account
of the necessity for emphasis, that the change in basic law which substi-
tutes length-of-service retirement for age-in-grade retirement will not
remedy the situation for the larger part of the service. The only way it
can be remedied is (1) by changing the percentages in the various grades;
(2) by changing the forced retiring ages for lieutenant commanders and
commanders; and (3) by introducing some form of elimination in the grade
of rear admiral and in the grades of ensign, lieutenant (j. g.) and
lieutenant.
It is concluded, therefore, that the service as a whole will be greatly
benefited if legislation can be obtained which will do away with the uneven-
ness, and, in some grades, abnormal number of forced retirements that the
present law will eventually require. A change from age-in-grade to length-
of-service retirement will not produce this desired condition.
There is one sentence of Commander McCain's paper which particularly
attracts attention. This is: “.... Thus it seems that the class (1907)
does have a slight advantage under the present law, but so slight is the ad-
vantage and so marked is the discrimination against individuals that it may
be called a Pyrrhic victory."
To whom accrues the slight advantage which the class of 1907 obtains
under the present law? The answer is simple. The advantage accrues to
several individuals of the class who, owing to their ages, have good chances
for promotion, but who would have this chance materially lessened by a
change to length-of-service retirement. Who are the individuals against
whom the referred marked discrimination of the present law strikes? It
is a few of the older members of the class. But Commander McCain
admits that a greater number of the class of 1907 will be promoted under
the present law than will be under the proposed change. Therefore, the
change would operate unfavorably against a larger number of individuals
than does the present law, from which we see that adherence to the present
law is a "Pyrrhic victory” only insofar as a few individuals are concerned,
but would be a real victory for the larger part of the service.
Why deny so-called benefits to be obtained by certain individuals under
the present law and try to take these benefits away in order that certain
other individuals may obtain them at their expense? It looks as if the
whole agitation for a change in the basic law is due to the effect on a few
individuals and not on what might be the effect on the entire service. This
is certain ; just as long as there must be a large number of forced retire-


  p. 1240 (#148)                      #

1240
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ments, the average number will be the same under either system if the
length-of-service which is to govern retirements corresponds, for the
average officer, to the ages at which retirements are forced by the present
law. But under the present law only a few individuals are adversely af-
fected, while in the proposed change to length-of-service retirement a
larger number of individuals will be adversely affected insofar as actual
opportunities for appearing before the selection board are concerned.
Therefore, the change would be worse for the service as a whole. We had
better stick to our present basic law, making only such adjustments as will
smooth out the curve. This will give assurance of promotion to a larger
percentage of the members of the abnormally large classes, such as 1907.
Commander McCain deals quite extensively with the methods that might
be pursued by the various selection boards. The writer of this discussion
believes that as soon as the situation is presented where a large number of
officers, who, if not promoted, will be retired during the coming year, the
board will discontinue the selection of officers only from the very top of
the lists. Instead, they will give serious consideration to all officers in a
block which ends with the name of the last officer in his normal position
who will be retired during the coming year, if not promoted. The board
must select, “having in view solely the special fitness of officers and the
efficiency of the naval service.” The relative fitness of officers cannot be de-
termined by the individual reports of fitness. These reports are not a true
test. The fitness reports of the large majority of captains near the top of
the list averages so nearly in equality that these reports in themselves can-
not possibly be an accurate gauge. Nor can the "quantity" of favorable
reports be used as a criterien for determining relative fitness. It is well
known that some of the ablest and most efficient officers have very little in
"quantity" in their fitness jackets, but that their limited number of reports
and letters unmistakably demonstrate "quality.” And it is quality that we
are after.
The fitness reports being so nearly on a par, and in most cases being
absolutely impossible for relative classification, the question of "efficiency
of the naval service" comes to the fore. The efficiency of the naval service
demands the selection of those captains whom the board considers would
make the best flag officers. Service reputation, which is determined not
only by the efficient manner in which an officer performs the duty assigned,
but which has behind it the character, class, or kind of duty performed,
the military and moral character of the officer, his willingness to take re-
sponsibility, physical condition, etc., etc., must carry great weight with the
board. It is conceded that when the members of the selection board yote
on which captains are to be selected we may expect to find a more or less
scattered opinion, depending on the basis which the board, or its members,
adopts in making the selections. But, if each member of the board should
place himself in the position of the commander-in-chief of the United
States fleet in a time of strained relations, and from the top twenty or
thirty captains list the six or eight whom he would desire to have as his
subordinate fleet flag officers, it is believed that the general service reputa-


  p. 1241 (#149)                      #

1925]
1241
Discussion
tion of the officers being considered would result in a sufficient consensus
of opinion in the board to select seventy-five per cent of those to be pro-
moted on the first ballot.
It is believed that it will do no good to attempt to determine one's rela-
tive chances for promotion under the present law, because it is inconceivable
that certain features of the law will not be changed within the next few
years. These changes must come not because the basic principle of age-in-
grade is wrong (which it is not) but because the present authorized per-
centages in the various grades and the ages at which forced retirements
are required do not bear the proper relations for obtaining a smooth and
equitable flow of promotion. The remedy is not to be found in a change
of the system from age-in-grade to length-of-service retirement. It can be
attained by making a few simple adjustments in the present law.
Airplane Carriers
Editor's Note: The Washington Post recently published an article on
lighter-than-air aircraft carriers, which was partially quoted in the PRO-
CEEDINGS, Professional Notes (page 848, Volume 51, May, 1925, issue);
and also quoted in U. S. Air Services. The following letter from Lieutenant
Warlick, author of the textbook, Naval Aviation, used by the midshipmen
at the Naval Academy, was published in U. S. Air Services, and is herewith
reprinted because of its bearing upon the Washington Post's article as
quoted in our May issue.
UNITED STATES NavAL ACADEMY,
Annapolis, Maryland.
To the Editor: (U. S. Air Services)
It was with much surprise that I saw your unqualified quotation of the
Washington Post's editorial concerning airship airplane carriers. The
sanctioning by a reputable aviation magazine of such an exaggeration not
only fails to help the cause of aviation but actually hinders it. Aside from
this is the harm done by the shadow of discredit cast upon other articles
of value.
I will give briefly the grounds upon which I base my statements:
The airplane carrier to be of use in war must fulfill certain necessary
requirements. It must be capable of maintaining all its planes in flight for
the duration of air engagement. It must house the crew that fly the planes.
It must supply the planes with fuel to keep them in the air during the battle.
It must supply them with munitions. It must furnish at least a moderate
amount of repair facilities. The exercise, by the carrier, of these functions
requires that a certain amount of weight carrying capacity be sacrificed
to each.
Let us take each of these functions in turn and investigate the carrying
capacity that each will require, considering the airship described-five million
cubic feet, 7,000 miles range at 60 knots, and to carry thirty bombers and
150 pursuit planes.
Each bomber requires two men to operate it. The pursuit planes require
one each. The most meager equipment with which each man could be ex-
pected to exist is twenty-five pounds.


  p. 1242 (#150)                      #

1242
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ONE
Each bomber will certainly require 2,000 pounds of bombs.
Fuel consumption for the following table is computed at the rate of six-
tenths pound per horsepower per hour, and allowing one full endurance
flight per plane—a niggardly allowance :
ONE
BOMBER
PURSUIT PLANE
Plane .........
..6,000 pounds 1,500 pounds
Crew and luggage ... ........ 350 pounds 175 pounds
Fuel for plane ....
.......1,500 pounds 350 pounds
Munitions ...
..2,000 pounds
............
9,850 pounds 2,025 pounds
The thirty bombers with personnel and equipment will weigh 295,500 pounds.
The 150 pursuit planes with personnel and equipment will weigh 303,750
pounds.
The total weight of this equipment will be 599,250 pounds.
Weight of the airship's crew 7,000 pounds.
Dead weight of airship (twice Shenandoah) 164,000 pounds.
Weight of the airship's fuel 200,000 pounds.
Total weight to be lifted 970,250 pounds.
The full weight of this ship, then, when ready to fly, will be 433 gross
tons. This figure does not include such minor weights as food, water,
repair facilities, and anti-aircraft defense armament for the airship.
A craft of this sort would indeed be a formidable weapon for national
defense! Three times the size of the Shenandoah, carrying as many planes
as both the Lexington and Saratoga—and at a cost of only $2,500,000! Why
does not the Navy Department see this?
Here is the reason:
Now that we have built such a splendid “Castle in the Air" let's test its
worth. Return to the laws of physics which made the airship possible and
investigate the aerodynamical properties of this craft.
The total buoyant effort of five million cubic feet of helium is 135 tons !
This is the total effort. But our ship requires 433 tons to lift it from
the earth. In order that it may rise into the air, all the equipment must
be discharged except the airship's crew and fuel. It is even doubtful
whether such a ship could leave the ground with fuel sufficient to carry it
7,000 miles at such high speed as 60 knots.
There is little doubt that airships will in the future act as plane carriers
but they cannot possibly carry many planes and these must be small ones.
For the five-million-cubic-feet ship to carry planes at all it is necessary to
discharge some of the fuel, thus reducing either or both speed and range.
The figures I have given above can be readily verified at either of the
air services.
Very sincerely yours,
(Signed) WILLIAM W. WARLICK,
Lieutenant, U. S. Navy.


  p. 1243 (#151)                      #

1925)
1243
Discussion
Blood Is Thicker Than Water
(See page 91, January, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
MAJOR E. N. MCCLELLAN, U. S. M. C.—There seems to be so much
discussion about Tattnall's historic exclamation, “Blood Is Thicker than
Water," that it might be well for your readers to have access to the
following report of "Josiah Tattnall, Flag Officer, Commanding, East
India Squadron,” dated “U. S. Steam Frigate Powhatan, Flag Ship, East
India Squadron, Off Peiho River, July 4, 1859," copied from the original
archives in the "East Indian Squadron" Letter Book of Flag Officer
Tattnall, located in the Navy Library:
Sir.
The last despatch which I had the honor to send you reported this Ship,
in company with the chartered steamer Toep-wan, at Sea, off the Yang-tse,
on her way to the Peiho, with our Minister to China, Mr. Ward, and suite
on board.
That gentleman has reported to the Government the result of his inter-
views and correspondence with the Chinese Commissioners at "Shanghae."
I shall only refer, therefore, to that subject, so far as is necessary to your
understanding the circumstances which placed us in a very unexpected
position on our arrival at the Peiho and produced as unexpected results.
The Chinese Commissioners were those with whom our late Minister,
Mr. Reed, concluded the Treaty last year at "Tient-Sin," and with whom he,
subsequently, arranged the tariff at "Shanghae," where they have remained
ever since.
In the interchange of visits between these Commissioners and Mr. Ward,
the latter was escorted by a number of the Officers and sixty Marines of
our Squadron, this being not only suited to the dignity of Mr. Ward, but
intended as a compliment to the Chinese Commissioners, to whom Mr. Ward
wished to extend the greatest consideration.
Mr. Ward informed them that he was on his way to "Pekin,” to exchange
the Treaties, which it was obligatory on both parties to do, on or before
the 18th June, now near at hand.
They replied that having signed the Treaties they must themselves ex-
change them, that they could not reach “Pekin" from "Shanghae" in less
than sixty days, and that by agreement with Lord Elgin, the late British
Ambassador, they were expected to remain at "Shanghae" until the arrival
of the present British Minister, Mr. Bruce.
Mr. Ward then offered to exchange our Treaty at "Shanghae," which
they evaded, on the ground that the Treaty was at "Pekin" and they pro-
posed to Mr. Ward that he should remain at "Shanghae" until the arrival
of the British Minister.
Mr. Ward, although doubting their sincerity, in a spirit of consideration
and forbearance, accepted the proposition, thus having the specified time of
exchange.
The British Minister, on his arrival a day or two after, refused to hold
offical intercourse with the Commissioners, on the ground (as I understood
it) that, “Pekin" was the place specified in the British Treaty for the ex-
change and that he was on his way there for that purpose.
Unsuccessful in their endeavor to detain the British and to re-open the
negotiation at "Shanghae," the Commissioners apparently yielded, and dis-
patched Couriers (who they asserted would arrive in a week) to Pekin to
prepare (as they said) the authorities for the arrival and reception of all
the Ministers and their conveyance to “Pekin," where the Treaties would


  p. 1244 (#152)                      #

1244
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
be exchanged by a special Commissioner on the 25th June, the day specified
in the British Treaty.
The commissioners notified Mr. Ward of this arrangement and requested
him to accompany the British and French to the Peiho. To this he con-
sented, thereby, to a certain extent, assuming the same platform with the
latter.
I will here remark that, the sincerity of the Chinese Commissioners was
much doubted at the time, some of their countrymen at "Shanghae" de-
claring that delay was their object, as they were fortifying the Peiho very
strongly, and had placed in command, a Mongal Prince, of high Military
reputation, who was known to be very hostile to the "Treaties.”
We reached the anchorage off the Peiho on the 21st June where we found
the British and French Ministers and their fleet.
On my first interview with the British Admiral, James Hope, I learned
that the Ministers (English and French) had announced to the authorities
on shore the object of their visit and that they should proceed by the river
to "Tient-Sin," on their way to “Pekin," conformably with their “Treaties."
The Chinese had positively refused them the ascent of the river, the
entrance to which they found very strongly fortified, and across which
several lines of barricades had been constructed.
The Chinese declared that this river, which we had all navigated as the
Peiho a year ago, was only one mouth of the “Tient-Sin" river, and
that there was another entrance ten miles to the North, which entrance was
called the Peiho and was the point referred to in the Treaties.
They insisted that the Ministers should remain off this Northern en-
trance until the arrival of the Commissioners from “Shanghae" (which
could not be short of two months) when arrangements would be made to
convey them to “Pekin" by this route.
The British and French Ministers considering this an evasion with a view
to gaining time to strengthen their defences, had referred the matter to
their respective Naval Commanders, who notified the Chinese that, if the
obstructions in the Channel of the river were not removed by the 25th June,
the day for the exchange of Treaties, they would themselves proceed to
remove them.
I will here remark that in the Chinese charts there is a small river empty-
ing into the sea ten miles to the North of this, and which, diverging grad-
ually from the course of the Peiho, as you ascend it, has its source far in
the interior. Some twenty miles from its mouth it is connected with the
river we know as the Peiho by a narrow creek, said to be dry at low, and
having but five feet at high water.
After due deliberation, Mr. Ward and I decided to enter the river we
had known as the Peiho, in the steamer “Toey-wan," as far as the barri-
cades, as though ignorant of access having been refused the English and
French. If the forts should fire across our bows to bring us to, we would
anchor and communicate; if into us, having no guns, we would retire and
act accordingly.
Twelve British and one French steamer, all small, had previously con-
centrated within the bar, at the mouth of the river, just out of gun shot of
the batteries. -
We entered the river in execution of our plan at II A. M., on the 24th
ult., and passing through the British Squadron, without communicating,
pushed up towards the barriers.
At this time not a man was to be seen at the Forts nor a gun in an em-
brasure, nor, although flag staffs were on the parapets, was a flag displayed.
There was nothing to indicate that the Forts were armed or manned.
Subsequent events show this to have been a deception and ambuscade, in-
tended, I do not doubt (in the confidence of their own strength and the


  p. 1245 (#153)                      #

1925)
1245
Discussion
small force of the English) to invite a conflict in order to annul the
Treaties of last year.
We had approached to within three hundred yards of the first barrier, at
which point, should we not be fired on, I had purposed anchoring, when we
grounded, and failed in all our efforts to back off. The tide was falling
fast and our situation was critical, not only from the facility with which
the batteries might demolish us, but as we were on the edge of a steep
bank, from the probability of the Steamer falling over and filling.
At this moment I received from Admiral James Hope, an attention and
kindness which must place me under lasting obligations to him.
Although he had reason to think that she would be fired upon by the
Forts, he sent a Gun Boat to my aid, with the message that, had he known
of my intention to pass up he would have furnished me a Pilot, and that
he expected to see me fired on.
The Gun Boat failed in her effort to extricate me and there being, as I
have said, a probability of the Toey-wan's falling over and filling, the Ad-
miral despatched a second Gun Boat to me, placing her entirely at my dis-
position, with the handsome and generous offer that I should hoist on board
of her the American Ensign and my own personal flag.
I declined the offer, with a just appreciation, however, of the personal
kindness to myself and the delicate compliment to our service.
The Toey-wan was more fortunate than I expected and a favorable wind
having sprung up we got her off at high water.
About two hours after grounding we sent a boat to the nearest Fort
with my Flag Lieutenant, Mr. Trenchard, and the Interpreters, to inform
the Commanding Officer that, the American Minister was on board the Toey-
wan on his way to "Tient-Sin” and “Pekin,” in accordance with our Treaty
and an understanding with the Chinese Commissioners at "Shanghae."
They were met at the landing by an officer, professing to be of low rank,
who said that his orders were, not to permit the removal of the barriers,
and to fire on those attempting it. That he believed that a high officer had
been appointed to meet the Ministers at the North. He also asserted, most
falsely, as subsequently shown, that there were no Troops and only a few
country Militia in the forts.
Although the Interpreters were allowed to get out of the boat for greater
facility of conversation, they were not permitted to approach the Forts.
The Toey-wan floated late in the evening, when I observed that the
British were arranging themselves, apparently, for action. I therefore
dropped down to the mouth of the harbor, and below them, so that my
lights might not interfere with their Signals or my position with their
operations.
The British, in the night, removed, with their boats, a portion of the
lower barrier, but the Chinese restored it in the morning.
At 2:45 P. M., on the 25th, the day specified for the exchange of Treaties,
the British stood up the river for the barriers, Admiral Hope leading in one
of the Gun Boats.
His whole force consisted of ten Gun Boats, including one French, and
three larger steamers, of a class denominated Dispatch vessel, carrying in
all about fifty guns. They also had on board of some Chinese Junks, at
the mouth of the river, a reserve of boats with seamen and Marines.
On the Admiral's reaching the first barrier the Forts suddenly swarmed
with men and a terrible fire from very heavy guns was opened on him from
all the forts on both sides of the river.
Two of his vessels at this moment grounded near the spot the Toey-wan
had grounded the day before.
The British and French fought with the most determined valor but fifteen
minutes sufficed to show me without a hope of success.


  p. 1246 (#154)                      #

1246
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The fire of the Chinese was directed with fatal skill and was chiefly
concentrated on the Admiral and the vessels nearest to him. His Flag
Vessel being disabled and her crew cut up, he shifted his flag to a second
and on her meeting the fate of the first he again shifted it to the Cormorant,
one of the larger (Dispatch) steamers. Here again the fire was concen-
trated on the flag of the gallant Admiral.
By this time, 4 P. M., several of his vessels had been sunk and it was
evident to me that nothing could enable him to extricate himself and retire
from the hopeless conflict, but the reserve of boats and men at the Junks,
but at the time the tide was running too strong for the crowded boats to
stem.
The officer in charge of these boats now visited one. He said nothing
oi aid, but his silent appeal was powerful indeed. In the few moments he
was on board he would look anxiously, alternately at his Admiral and at
the boats.
After he left I held a consultation with Mr. Ward, and he agreed with
me perfectly that, under all the circumstances of our position with the
English and the aid the Admiral had tendered me the day before, I could
do no less than to tow the boats to his relief.
I made the offer which was thankfully and promptly accepted.
While the boats were making fast to hawsers which I veered astern, I
insisted on Mr. Ward and his suite leaving the Toey-wan, and going on
board one of the Junks, for reasons that will be obvious.
He at first reluctantly yielded, and left us, but soon returned in one of
the English boats, declaring that, as the Toey-wan was his home and was
going under fire with his approbation and concurrence, he would remain
in her. I reluctantly yielded to his gallant impulse.
At this time a young British officer came to me from the vessels engaged
to say that the gallant Admiral was dangerously wounded and had but
six men left. He (the officer) had two boats sunk in reaching me.
I towed the boats through the British line to within a short distance of
the Admiral whose flag was flying on the Cormorant, when casting them
off I retired to the rear of the line near the French Gun Boat and anchored
for the night.
I took up this position as it might enable me to aid the wounded and
should boats be sunk to rescue their crews.
After anchoring I thought of the Admiral and of his chivalrous kind-
ness to me the day before, which from an unwillingness to intrude on him
when he was preparing for action, I had in no way yet acknowledged.
I therefore, with my Flag Lieutenant, Mr. Trenchard, went in my barge
to visit him. When within a few feet of the Cormorant, a round shot
struck the boat, killed my Coxswain, and slightly bruised my Flag Lieu-
tenant. We fortunately reached the Cormorant before the boat entirely
filled.
I found the Admiral lying on his quarter-deck, badly wounded. I in-
formed him that I had called to pay him my respects, and to express my
regret at his condition. After remaining on board the Cormorant about
ten minutes I took advantage of an English boat that was passing to return
to the Toey-wan.
The Cormorant after this was sunk and the Admiral shifted his flag to a
fourth vessel, the Coramandel, (a thing I believe unprecedented) thus
evincing an indomitable valor under very disheartening and almost hopeless
circumstances.
At dusk, about 8 P. M., a desperate attempt was made, by landing from
boats, to storm the forts, but they stood in an impassable Morass, and the
assailants were repelled with heavy loss.


  p. 1247 (#155)                      #

1925]
1247
Discussion
On the morning following this day and night of slaughter, the action
still continuing, but the fire more feeble and distant, I found that six of
the English vessels were sunk, and that the remainder had withdrawn to a
more distant and safer position, from which they could easily retire out
of gun shot.
I now prepared to return to the Powhatan with Mr. Ward, but first
called on board the Coromandel to take leave of the Admiral and also on
board the French Gun Boat to enquire after the French Commodore (Tri-
cault) whom I had met on board the Cormorant when I called on the Ad-
miral and who had subsequently been wounded.
I deferred my departure, by request, that I might tow to their Ships at
Sea, two Launch loads of the wounded English.
On reaching the Powhatan I again despatched the Toey-wan into the
harbor, in charge of Lieutenant Johnston (first of the Powhatan) with
orders to remain at the mouth of the harbor, out of fire, and to afford all
aid consistent with our neutrality. After an efficient performance of this
duty for 24 hours he rejoined me.
The Sea Officers with me in the Toey-wan on this service were Captain
Pearson, Lieutenants Trenchard and Semmes, all of the Powhatan, and
Midshipman Merchant of the Germantown. The Engineer Officers were
Messrs. City and Archer, Captain A. S. Taylor of the Marine Corps was
also with me. I have to thank them for their zealous services.
My Coxswain, John Hart, whose death I have to lament, was the son of
John and Mary Hart, now living at Jamaica, Long Island. He was a
widower, but has left a young daughter eight years old.
I shall communicate the sad event to his parents, and as his child whom
he supported will be entitled to a pension, may I beg the favor of you, Sir,
as soon as the proper papers shall be filed at the Department, to direct that
the pension be issued without unnecessary delay.
Hart had been a long time in the Navy, having served under me fifteen
years ago.
The English retired this morning from the river, having recovered and
brought out three of their sunken vessels and destroyed the others.
Their loss is about four hundred and fifty killed and wounded, including
twelve French. Eight officers are killed and twenty-three wounded.
Among the wounded are the four Senior officers, including the Admiral,
and the French Commodore Tricault.
They attacked with about twelve hundred men.
The above report was made to Secretary of the Navy Isaac Toucey.


  p. 1248 (#156)                      #


H.M.S. "Furious," Which Has Been RECONSTRUCTED AS AN AIRCRAFT CARRIER


  p. 1249 (#157)                      #

PROFESSIONAL NOTES
PREPARED BY
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER H. W. UNDERWOOD, U. S. NAVY
FROM MAY 7 TO JUNE 7
GENERAL ARRANGEMENT
GREAT BRITAIN .......
FRANCE ..........
GERMANY .......
UNITED STATES ...
ENGINEERING .
AVIATION
TION .................
MERCHANT MARINE........
MISCELLANEOUS ......
CURRENT NAVAL AND PROFESSIONAL PAPERS.........
I 249
1258
1265
1267
1274.
1286
..
.
.....
.....
...........................
1294
1303
1311
1303
GREAT BRITAIN
Naval Shipbuilding Requirements
The Engineer, 15 May, 1925.-All who appreciate the importance of naval
defense will welcome the new shipbuilding program which the government
is expected to introduce before the Parliament adjourns for the summer
recess. We have put off till the very last moment the provision of new
ships to replace those which are past their prime, and the result is that
our present-day fleet, though sufficiently imposing on paper, contains a
large proportion of second-rate vessels, deficient in speed, armament, and
other essential qualities. Particularly is this the case with our cruisers, of
which no more than a dozen compare at all favorably with representative
ships under foreign flags. The hope that other powers, noticing the virtual
suspension of naval shipbuilding by this country, would refrain from ex-
panding their respective fleets, has not been fulfilled. While it might be
premature to speak of a new race for naval supremacy, there is an un-
mistakable tendency abroad to multiply vessels of which the aggregate
tonnage is not restricted by the Washington Treaty. Cruisers, destroyers,
submarines—all may be built without limit as to number, and since the
relative combatant worth of such craft has been substantially increased by
the reduction of battle fleets, a certain temptation exists to develop these
types on a liberal scale; hence, the large program of so-called "auxiliary"
construction which have come into effect since the Washington Conference.
Taking cruisers alone, it will be found that the five leading powers have
legislated since that event for a total of forty new cruisers, and of this
number only seven are being built for the British Empire. In destroyers
and submarines the British ratio of new tonnage is very much lower. Hay-
ing regard to the magnitude of our sea interests, it is clearly impossible for
us to remain passive in the face of this progressive decline in our naval


  p. 1250 (#158)                      #

1250
| July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
power. Imperative as the demand may be for economy in state expenditure,
it must not be allowed to override the urgent needs of national defense.
In the case of the navy retrenchment has already been carried to the extreme
limit. From now on it will pay us better to invest money in new ships than
to spend it on the upkeep of material which is largely inefficient.
A study of the Navy List shows that about a score of the cruisers re-
tained for service has ceased to be effective for war purposes. Probably
these vessels would have been paid off long since, but for the shortage of
cruising ships of any description. As it is, they must continue to serve
until replaced by something better, but the expenditure of large sums year
by year on ships of inferior fighting value is bad policy from every point of
view. Thanks to the patriotic action of the Australian Government in or-
dering two ships, seven major cruisers of post-war design will eventually
be at the disposal of the Empire. These, however, can be regarded only as
the nucleus of our future cruising feet, which the Admiralty considers
should attain a strength of fifty-two units. This estimate may be revised
by the government committee which has been investigating the whole ques-
tion of ship replacement, though in our judgment it errs, if at all, on the
moderate side. Whether all the new cruisers should be of the 10,000-ton
type which the Washington Agreement has practically standardized is a
problem of some importance. While is is true that most of the foreign
vessels now under construction belong to this class, both Japan and France
have built ships of considerably smaller dimensions. Cruisers of 10,000
tons seem to us unnecessarily large for duty with the battle fleet, for which
function ships of reduced displacement would probably be of equal use
and much less expensive. It is to be hoped, therefore, that our construc-
tors will not acquire the habit of regarding the maximum tonnage allowed
by the treaty as the basic figure for all new cruiser designs. For reasons
which may be cogent enough-though they are not very obvious to the
uninitiated—the Admiralty chooses to observe a great deal of mystery about
the ships now in hand. We can only trust that this policy of reticence will
be justified by results, but past experience with ships built in a similar
atmosphere of secrecy has not been encouraging. The three French cruisers
of the Duguay-Trouin class, although laid down after the treaty, have a
normal displacement of only 7,900 tons. High speed is their main feature,
to achieve which both armament and protection have been sacrificed. Their
speed is 34.5 knots, they mount eight 6.1-inch guns, and armor is non-
existent save for thin decks and splinter-proof gun turrets. Acclaimed at
the date of inception as wholly admirable, the design has since been con-
demned by some of the foremost French critics. Of greater interest are
the four Japanese cruisers of the Furutaka class, the nameship of which
was put afloat in February and the Kako last month. Displacing only
7,100 tons, they have a legend speed of 33 knots, and are armed with six
8-in guns, so disposed as to permit of a full discharge on either beam and
a bow fire of four guns. In planning these ships Japanese designers seem
to have moved out of the rut in which some of their foreign colleagues
are apparently content to remain. There is not, nor has there even been, any
technical objection to arming a ship of moderate size with a few heavy
guns, instead of a greater number of lighter pieces. Volume of fire was,
no doubt, the cardinal factor in former years, when control methods were
of the crudest, and a ship of fine lines, apt to be lively in a seaway, could not
hope to make effective use of slow-firing ordnance of heavy caliber. But
today, when the gun of medium caliber can be worked as easily, and dis-
charged almost as rapidly, as the quick firer of an earlier period, and when,
moreover, improved systems of fire control ensure a reasonable percentage
of hits under difficult conditions, the cast iron rule of equipping light
cruisers with no guns above 6-inch caliber is, or ought to be, discredited.


  p. 1251 (#159)                      #

1925]
1251
Professional Notes
By disregarding this obsolete rule Japanese designers have evolved in the
Furutaka a ship of considerably greater fighting power than contemporary
vessels of equal and even superior tonnage. Compared with her, the 7,500-
ton American cruisers of the Omaha group, with their twelve 6-inch guns,
appear to disadvantage, and our own ships of the E class—7,600 tons and
seven 6-inch guns—are still worse. Unless the experience derived from
the late war is utterly misleading, neither the Omaha nor the Enterprise
would stand a sporting chance in a duel with the smaller Japanese ship.
We cite the Furutaka merely as a specimen of what may be done on a much
smaller displacement than 10,000 tons, without suggesting that replicas of
the design should be laid down for the British fleet, though it does seem to
us that ships of this class would be more useful than vessels like the Enter-
prise and Emerald. The only British cruising ship that approximates to the
Furutaka in size is the Adventure, which is primarily designed for mine-
laying. Her displacement is 7,260 tons, but although she was launched
nearly a year ago, details of her speed and armament are still withheld by
the naval authorities.
In addition to cruisers, the forthcoming program is expected to make
provision for destroyers and submarines. Of the first named we have 195
boats. Half of them were built during the war, and their normal span
of "life" has been curtailed by the strenuous service they were called upon
to perform. Actually, therefore, we have only about 100 destroyers that
are thoroughly efficient. The design of future boats must perforce be in-
Suenced by current progress abroad, which is all in the direction of increased
tonnage and heavier armament. The new French flotilla leaders, of which
twenty-one are under construction and projected, are vessels of 2,360 tons,
with a speed of 35.5 knots, armed with five 5.1-inch guns. There are no
leaders as powerful as this in our service. Japan, also, is reported to be
planning a series of new "destroyers,” to displace no less than 3,000 tons
and to carry several 5.5-inch guns. The value of the destroyer as an anti-
dote to the submarine was so clearly demonstrated in the late conflict that
the need for maintaining an adequate force of vessels of that type scarcely
requires emphasis. It is true that the Washington Agreement seeks to ban
submarine attacks on merchant shipping, but one of the leading powers
has still to ratify this particular clause of the treaty, and parchment safe-
guards are not, in any case, always effective in time of war. Finally, we
have fewer submarines than either the United States or Japan, though the
type is one clearly destined to play an important part in naval strategy.
A strong case could be presented for laying down a dozen or more new
submarines of large dimensions, to be employed as patrol ships or convoy
guards, on the oceanic trade routes which form the arteries of the Empire.
Apart from the obsolete K class, we have at present only five or six sub-
marines capable of undertaking this essential duty. There will, no doubt,
be an outcry in some quarters when the new shipbuilding program appears,
for the cost is bound to be heavy, but the bill must be faced unless the
country is prepared to sacrifice its sea power, which is synonymous with
its safety, welfare and prosperity.
The Value of Hong-kong
By Sir Herbert Russell, The Naval and Military Record. 15 April, 1925.
- I confess that I have never been quite clear as to why the British Gov-
ernment acquiesced so readily at the Washington Conference in the sug-
gested restriction with regard to Hong-kong as a naval base. They agreed
that no more development work should be undertaken; that the dockyard
resources of the place should remain just as they were. Was this conces-
sion intended to ensure sanction to the Singapore scheme? Was it designed


  p. 1252 (#160)                      #

1252
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
as a generous gesture to the United States in return for her readiness to
undertake no further fortification of the bases of Manila and Yap? The
former seems a very probable explanation. The latter is a matter which
could have little direct concern for us. But, then, neither could our policy
with regard to Hong-kong have any direct concern for the United States.
Ever since we "acquired” possession of it Hong-kong has been our
dominant naval base in the Far East. At the beginning of the present cen-
tury we had a battle fleet based upon it, consisting of six ships of the Glory
class and the two Barfleurs. The political and strategical reasons which
brought about a reduction of the China fleet to a very small squadron are
a matter of common knowledge, and I do not propose to refer further to
them than to point out that they no longer exist. The need for naval con-
centration in European waters seems very unlikely to recur in our time.
Our alliance with Japan has been abrogated—very unfortunately, I venture
to think. Japan, faced with what she imagined to be a prospect of isolation,
has now entered into a treaty with Soviet Russia, of the full extent of
which we have no knowledge. Whatever the significance of that compact
may be, one thing is certain : it cannot be anything like so friendly to Brit-
ish interests as as the Anglo-Japanese Treaty.
It was during the days when the British China fleet was, relatively, a
very great force that Hong-kong developed to its present position. Of
course, a great deal of work has been done since, but the general scheme of
the modern naval establishment was evolved during that period. The idea
was to make the port a battleship base of the first order. But, just as even
greater and more important undertakings, such as the Keyham extension
of Devonport Dockyard, have been outclassed within two decades by the
extraordinary growth in warship dimensions, so has Hong-kong failed to
realize this original purpose. The Admiralty No. 1 Dock is 555 feet long,
with 95 feet width of entrance, and 39 feet of water over the sills. It is
therefore inadequate to receiving any capital ship remaining on the effective
list. The New Dock at Quarry Bay, belonging to Messrs. Butterfield and
Swire, is 750 feet long, 88 feet wide, and 34.5 feet of water over the sills,
so that no ship with blister bulges could look at it. The Kowloon Dock is
700 feet long, 86 feet wide, with 30 feet of water. The Hope and Cosmo-
politan Docks are only able to accommodate small cruisers and other craft
of comparatively light displacement.
When I was last in Hong-kong, about two years ago, I was told that
there was no engineering difficulty in the way of developing the big docks
to a degree which would render them equal to any demands ever likely to be
imposed. That such development would have been entered upon, sooner or
later, is pretty certain, otherwise the restrictions of the Washington Agree-
ment under this head become merely pointless.
In point of strategic position it is frequently stated that Hong-kong
cannot compare with Singapore. But strategic position in relation to what?
The tendency to talk in generalities about what really depends entirely upon
specific circumstances is apt to lead to very indefinite conclusions. It is
useless to mince matters in defining strategic values. Both Hong-kong and
Singapore are naval bases of first class importance only in the supposition
of war with a great naval power in the Pacific. There is only one great
naval power whose natural war zone lies in the Pacific, and that is Japan.
Unless we are prepared to visualize the possibility of a conflict with Japan
it becomes almost impossible to estimate the relative strategical values of
Hong-kong or Singapore. Such a war is not going to be brought about
merely by contemplating it as a conceivable event. On the contrary, realiza-
tion of it and preparation for it (under the mask of as much polite camou-
flage as we please) are very much more likely to avert it than the easier
course of declaring it to be "unthinkable.”


  p. 1253 (#161)                      #

1925]
1253
Professional Notes
Two broad aspects have to be considered in relation to any question of
the value of a war base. The first is its geographical advantages, as deter-
mined by the probable zone of the active struggle, for the conduct of opera-
tions. The second is the ability to hold it against attempts at capture or
* destruction, which would be the obvious objective of the enemy. As to
operations, the character of these would be dictated in no small measure by
the situation and resources of the base itself. Distance is a governing
factor in strategy.
If it comes to a question of choice between Hong-kong and Singapore
under the conditions of such a presumptive war as to render both of them
bases of first-rate consequence, I think there can be little difficulty in de-
ciding in favor of Singapore. Hong-kong may present certain features of
advantage over the Malaya Island, but by the test of points the balance is
altogether in favor of the latter.
I confess that the Yellow Peril, in the accepted sense of the term, has
never much impressed me. It may become a sinister reality some day, but
that some day is so remote that we may leave worrying about it to posterity.
So far from China and Japan showing any signs of a future coalescence,
forming a threat to the peace of the White World, they are very antag-
onistic just now, but, in order to avoid too pointed a reference to a country
with which we are living on the most friendly relations, let me speak of the
Pacific objective—that objective out of which the Singapore scheme and
Australia's active naval policy have arisen-as the Yellow Peril.
A conflict with the Yellow Peril means not only war upon our commerce
traversing the Pacific, but a tremendous menace to India and Australia, as
well as to numerous lesser territories of the Empire. Indeed, such a war,
should it ever come to pass, would most likely arise out of an attempt at
forcible penetration of Australian terrain under the plea of sheer necessity
to find an outlet for over-population. There are other perfectly possible
causes of war; this is the most definite and the most probable one.
Singapore is more favorably seated than Hong-kong for countering any
naval descent from the China Sea. Moreover, it is a reasonable assump-
tion that the preliminary move to any such descent would be an attempt to
either capture or destroy Hong-kong. The place would not be easy to
defend against a strong military expedition, and with Kowloon in the occu-
pation of the enemy the island would be untenable as a naval base. It
would be the experience of Port Arthur over again.
Singapore is all but invulnerable against attack by land. In the first
place, the peninsula off the southern extremity of which it lies is a British
dominion, and in the second place it would be singularly difficult ground for
military operations on a big scale. The railway and main communications
are frequently within easy reach of long-range gunfire from the sea, and
are closely bordered by dense forests and jungles. A Yellow Peril fleet, in
order to attack Singapore, would have to steam nearly 3,000 miles from
its home bases—too great a distance altogether for capital ship operations,
which might reasonably be expected to extend over a considerable time. In
fact, it would be like carrying out an attack upon New York with Plymouth
as a base.
So in any attempt to estimate the relative values of Hong-kong and
Singapore as first class naval bases we must take into account this very
important question of the ability to hold either in the event of war with the
Yellow Peril. Hong-kong is better situated, strategically, for the delivery
of swift offensive operations, because it is more on the spot. But the
necessity to be on the defensive would be much more urgent than in the
case of Singapore, and to this extent geographical advantage would be more
than neutralized.


  p. 1254 (#162)                      #

1254
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The decision to develop Singapore as the British fleet base of the Pacific
does not imply any minimizing of the value of Hong-kong. We are cer-
tainly not going to give up the latter place because we are making more
of the former. As a point d'appui for submarine and destroyer operations
and for aircraft concentration it would be of vital importance in a Yellow
Peril war-so long as we could continue to hold it. But, it is just because
of this vital importance that we may be sure the Yellow Peril legions
(which we must assume to be as well equipped for war as the White World
legions) would spare no effort to wrest it from us.
As long as it were possible to materialize the traditional doctrine of
the British Navy, to seek out the enemy and attack him swiftly, Hong-
kong has strategical claims superior to those of Singapore, but, when we
pass to the phase of protective warfare, the Malaya base holds the superior
position. It is so much further down the flank of any great movement of
descent, either upon Australia or India, by the Yellow Peril forces that,
in addition to the great enforced extension of their line of retreat on being
brought to action (how valuable this would have proved at Jutland!), the
scope for heading-off tactics is so much more favorable. In a sketchy
way it may be said that Hong-kong would figure more as a base for
chasing, and Singapore for intercepting.
My reference to the possibility of a Yellow Peril descent upon India may
call forth a smile of incredulity, but this idea is no mere figment of fancy,
devised to form a theme upon which to write. During four months of
touring India I was astonished to find how openly and widely the coming
of the Yellow Peril conquerors is being proclaimed, and believed in, in the
native bazaars. I do not suggest that there is any organized government
propaganda in all this, but it must be perfectly well known to the Indian
authorities that there are countless Japanese moving about in the great
cities, telling the credulous Hindus what good times they will have and
how much more prosperous they will be "when we come here as the mas-
ters of India." Perhaps we can afford to laugh at this. A good many of us
laughed very derisively at the idea of the German menace until the bolt fell.
We yet have to see whether the Soviet-Japanese Treaty may not presently
give a new aspect to the value of Hong-kong. The difficulty about accept-
ing such restrictions as are imposed by the Washington Agreement is that
things have to be taken as they then are. It is impossible to foresee changes
which may alter the whole complexion of world affairs. The United States
is realizing this in regard to the prohibition to further fortify or improve
either Manila or Yap. Circumstances alter cases, and the point of view of
today may be radically different from the point of view of tomorrow. Six
months ago the British Government would have ratified the Geneva Protocol
with a loud murmur of self-gratulation. A few weeks ago the British
Government announced that the Geneva Protocol—so far as this country
is concerned- has never been anything more than stillborn.
Cups and Saucers for Seamen
The Naval and Military Record, 6 May, 1925.—The announcement that
cups and saucers are to replace the traditional mess bowl in the Royal Navy
is a very minor matter in itself, but it opens up a distinctly interesting line
of reflection. The customs of the sea have long been one of the great
attractions of the sea life. No disinterested man will pretend that a ham-
mock is as comfortable to sleep in as a four-poster bed, or that being
routed out of the aforesaid hammock in order to stand the middle watch is
as pleasant as all-night in, or that a sheath knife is quite as nice as an ivory-
handled blade, accompanied by an electro-plated fork as a means of attack-
ing bully beef. Yet the youthful imagination finds a glamor of romance


  p. 1255 (#163)                      #

1925]
1255
Professional Notes
in the idea of all this picturesque unconventionality, and the youthful imag-
ination means a tremendous asset in recruiting for the Royal Navy.
There is an old story worth recalling in this connection. In the long
bygone days a certain hard-bitten old Jack did a particularly gallant act,
and the admiral under whom he was serving was so impressed that he asked
him to dine in his cabin. All went well until the dessert stage was reached.
Then Jack raised his finger bowl and lapped up its contents. Very tact-
fully the admiral's servant filled it again. Jack lapped up the second dose.
As the servant was once again pouring in water Jack, in a stage whisper,
said, "Put a drop o' rum in it this time, mate!" The moral is that the
lower deck does not want finger bowls. Does it want cups and saucers?
Is the additional luxury of being able to drink tea with the little finger poised
any real compensation for the blow to tradition ?
George Cupples, in The Green Hand, draws a great picture of the new
midshipman, on the first wet morning down-Channel, coming upon the
poop with an umbrella over his head, "and the hands forward all of a roar."
We do not suggest it is ever likely to come quite to this in the service, if
only that the service itself may be trusted to see that it shall not. Comfort
and cleanliness, by all means, but no grandmotherliness! Since the hon-
orable memberess for Plymouth has failed to abolish the rum ration, the
next best thing she can do is to suggest that it be served in wine glasses.
The Union Jack Club
The Army. Navy and Air Force Gazette, 9 May, 1925.—To those of us
who have been associated with the Union Jack Club from its early begin-
nings, the last annual general meeting presented an unfamiliar feature in
the absence of a former president, Sir Edward Ward. What the council
feels on this subject has been recorded in the report; what the club feels
has been eloquently expressed in the address which the elected members of
the general committee handed to Sir Edward Ward. Members will never
forget the thoroughness and the devotion which characterized his work for
the club.
The club is not a one-man show. It is, according to the figures of last
year, a 288,000 men's show, with a council of men of experience, ability,
and whole-hearted devotion to its interests. The Union Jack Club, as Sir
Walter Lawrence, its new president, remarked, is a wonderful and unique
institution, in that it runs without splash, advertisement and booming, yet
always moving with the times and keeping abreast of the requirements of
the services. Colonel Sir Henry Streatfeild, Sir George Majoribanks, and
Brigadier General Gascoigne and others have done much for this fine
service institution, which has now nearly 700 beds, looks after the leave
men, and has supplied as many as 2,000 meals in one day.
This club depends on two great points. One is finance, and on this
score the club is sound and self-supporting. The second point is the tone
of the club. When Sir Walter Lawrence was asked to draw up the rules
he borrowed from clubs in the West End the rules which now govern the
C'nion Jack Club and, looking back over the years that have passed, one
can say that the tone of the Union Jack Club is one of its greatest assets.
How tone comes is a mystery, but, when once it is established, it grows
strong. It is in the hands of the members, who are jealous guardians of
the honor of the club, which never closes, and is open day and night.
In the old days, when a leave man arrived at Waterloo he had nowhere
to go, and he fell a ready victim to those who made it a profitable business
to meet him when his purse was full. What a change the Union Jack Club
has worked. The trade of the harpies and the confidence men has become
flat, stale and unprofitable. The club has raised the self-respect of the man


  p. 1256 (#164)                      #

1256
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
as well as catering for him, and it is a rare thing now to see drunkenness
in uniform, or to witness any man being escorted to a platform by singing
and tipsy undesirables. The clean, manly life in the services and the broader,
better lines of education have an abettor outside of barracks in the help-
ful facilities of the Waterloo Road Club, which has accomplished its
share in the general uplift and performed a truly national service. It en-
joys the fruit of its pioneering days in that it is now an established factor
in the life of the services—a club, a home, a restaurant, a resting place,
bank, safe deposit, and the mustering place for journeys to and fro.
Naval Engineering Training
The Naval and Military Record, 8 April, 1925.—The statement that the
Admiralty are inviting twenty-five candidates to sit for the next examination
of special entry cadets, to qualify as officers of the Engineer branch, lends
itself to some interesting reflections. In no branch of the Royal Navy has
the system of training undergone so many changes since the introduction of
the Selborne scheme twenty-three years ago. About the only thing that
can be said in favor of that scheme, as it originally applied to the engineers,
is that the principle of common entry was good. It did away with the long
standing friction on the subject of status, and with the distinction which had
come down from the days when the "ship's engineers” might, without un-
kindness, be described as more homely than polished. But, common entry
and common training are two very different things. A grounding in the
elements of practical marine engineering might well prove of value to an
executive officer. Time spent in learning seamanship and navigation is little
better than lost to the naval engineer.
It soon became apparent that where the Selborne scheme was presently
going to break was in its relation to the engineer branch. It came into
being almost with the advent of a new era of development in naval en-
gineering, due to the adoption of the turbine, oil fuel, the transition from
the Scotch boiler to the water tube type, the dawn of the internal com-
bustion problem, the expansion of electrical equipment, and the like. Of
course, the Selborne scheme provided for specialist training for the class
of lieutenants (E) which it proposed to create, but the approach to that
specialist training was much too long: too much time altogether was lavished
upon the "Jack of all Trades" business. Thoughtful men began to ask in
what way it was expected that the Selborne scheme was going to prove any
better-or, indeed, was going to prove half as good-as the old Keyham
régime which it superseded. They were told to wait and see, not to pull
up the young tree by the roots in order to find out how it was growing.
I do not propose to trace the history of the innumerable "niodifications"
which have been introduced into the Selborne-Cawdor methods of producing
a class of naval engineers since it first became clear that the young tree was
not growing at all well. This would take up too much space altogether,
however briefly it were done. It ought to be rather interesting, during a
big naval foregathering, for a party of engineer officers to get together and
compare notes as to just what particular phase of the evolution was cur-
rent when they were training.
The fact is the Admiralty had to realize that, under the Selborne scheme,
instead of overtaking the rapid development in the science of marine en-
gineering, which is the essential elementary condition of every sound
principle of training, the rapid development was outdistancing the tardy
progress of the Osborne entries. The navy was coming to rely more and
yet more upon the old Keyham class of engineers as it perceived the portents
of failure in the mode by which they were to be supplanted.
-


  p. 1257 (#165)                      #

1925)
1257
Professional Notes
To say that we have completed the cycle which began at Christmas,
1902, and are now back to the old Keyham method of training may not be
strictly true, because things change materially in such a progressive science
as engineering, and had the old Keyham régime remained it would not have
been precisely the same today as it was twenty-three years ago. But, it is
true to this extent: the Selbourne scheme has been modified virtually out
of existence, and in principle, if not in actual practice, we are back to the
specific form of training of the old Royal Naval Engineering College days.
While I suppose we may admit the premise that an engineer can never
know too much about his job, I am not sure that the existent method of
specializing for the engineer branch does not ask rather too much. For this
reason, it probably is that the present-day Keyham system is not yielding a
sufficiency of officers, to meet the requirements of the fleet, so that the
Admiralty have to call for candidates for twenty-five direct entry cadet-
ships. Efficiency is a relative work. In the normal course we judge of it
by the standard of results. Thus we should say that the engineer officers
of the Mercantile Marine are a highly efficient body of men, since the liners
they run come and go with clockwork-like punctuality. Yet I doubt if
there is an engineer officer in the Mercantile Marine who could gain twenty
per cent of marks in the examination which a "dagger” lieutenant (E) has
to pass in order to attain to that symbol. The simple explanation is that
he does not want such obtuse theoretical knowledge. He is a thorough
master of the practical side of his business—and that is enough for him.
The super-specialist in the engine-room of a warship seems to me a sort
of Gulliver among his comrades. There is a great gulf of erudite superiority
between him and the other men who stand on the watch-keeping platform.
Yet does he get much opportunity for the exercise of that profound
theoretical knowledge which he has striven so laboriously to acquire? I
was once shipmate with one of the engineer officers who brought the Cal-
liope out of Apia harbor in the teeth of a violent hurricane, in which sev-
eral other warships failed to escape destruction. The exploit will be
recalled by the older generation of naval men. I asked him how the
Calliope alone managed to get clear, and I remember his answer: "We
knew just what had to be done, and we did it.” Which, to my mind, is the
most effective form of theory of all.
Let me not be misunderstood into implying any disparagement of super-
knowledge (or "dagger" knowledge, if you prefer it) nor of the men who
possess it, but I am venturing to wonder whether the system does not pass
the limits of utility. The vocational value of theory can only be gauged
in relation to its application to practice. I believe it is a fact that a large
number of very eligible aspirants are deterred from entering as engineer
cadets by the apprehension of what lies in front of them. Is it not the fact
that the question of maintaining the supply of engineer officers for the
Navy is causing some concern to the Admiralty ?
I believe direct entry to be the sound principle in the case of the execu-
tive branch, taking the term to imply the starting point of naval training
where ordinary education ceases, but it is by no means certain that the same
principle applies equally to the engineering branch. Mathematics, for in-
stance, which play such an essential part in all engineering, might be studied
rather more intensively than is usual in the course of a general education
by those who design to enter the navy as engineers. The direct entry
executive cadet is not expected to bring any initial professional qualifications
-he is merely the finished schoolboy-but the age of between seventeen-
and-a-half and eighteen is rather advanced for a youth to "take up” en-
gineering on the same principle. Therefore, the age limit might, with
advantage, be lowered in the case of candidates for the engineer branch,
although not to anything like the Dartmouth standard.


  p. 1258 (#166)                      #

1258
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Probably the present Keyham scheme has come to stay, but this is not
to say that it is necessarily at the end of the many modifications from
which it has been evolved. It has so entirely broken away from the Sel-
borne plan that even were the existing Dartmouth régime superseded by a
new order of things (and this is far from unlikely in the not distant future)
there is no reason why it should not continue, but in this event the direct
entry of officers for the engineer branch should cease. These various meth-
ods of attaining a single end savor too much of expedient or experiment.
When two or more systems have been thoroughly tested in practice, one
must have proved itself the best. Granted, it may not be easy to discrim-
inate definitely between methods possessing their own inherent advantages
and drawbacks. The Admiralty are clearly of opinion that the direct entry
candidate may make an efficient engineer on a very much shorter and
simpler course of training than the Dartmouth entry; otherwise, they would
not be announcing vacancies for twenty-five of them at the next examina-
tion. This being so, it is not unreasonable to raise the whole question as to
whether the present regular system of entry and training for the engineer
branch is really on the best possible lines ?
The answer is that it is producing a highly efficient class of engineer
officer. Well, so did the old Keyham régime, but in those days the doctrine
was to turn out a uniform standard of professional attainments. This was
known as the "Keyham standard," and was a splendid groundwork for the
exercise of those brains by which a man gets on in the navy as in every
other walk of life. There was no attempt at "super" grading: no ultra-
specializing; the accepted principle was a uniform high level of proficiency.
Since then there has developed a system of training to inequality. Is this
plan good for esprit de corps within the branch ?
It is a very big question, and one upon which the wise man would be
conjectural and inquiring rather than didactic. I hear a good deal of
criticism in the service itself upon the present method of training engineer
officers, but long experience has taught me that service criticism may not
always prove an infallible mentor. The present system may be the best
it is humanly possible to devise, but, if so, why supplement it by any other
form of entry and training ? The super-specialist may be an invaluable man
as squadron engineer officer, but there is this danger about it: his sub-
ordinates may shrink from appealing to him lest he shall reprove their
ignorance. That such a thing is extremely unlikely to happen is merely a
tribute to the spirit of the service. I do not say that "MacAndrew's
Hymn" embodies the rudiments of modern naval engineering, but the wet
shirt still keeps the ship going. I once made a passage in company with
a "dagger” lieutenant (E), who on one occasion confided to me that it was
really wasting his time to go on to the engine-room watch platform: the
artificers and the mechanicians among them knew their job perfectly, and he
felt he ought to be doing better things. He may have been joking, but I
confess that his remarks set me musing upon whether too much academic
training for a severely practical profession is altogether a wise principle.
FRANCE
French Destroyers and Light Cruisers
The Naval and Military Record, 6 May, 1925.--St. Nazaire, which has
the distinction of having in hand the largest number of torpedo craft of
the new program: viz., the 2,400-ton destroyers, Chacal, Leopard, Lynx,
and the 1,460-ton torpilleur d'escadre Simoun, is making an effort to com-
plete them at an early date. Commanders have been appointed to the new
destroyers, but the unit most advanced is the Simoun, that is having the
finishing touches to her internal and external equipments, and has on board


  p. 1259 (#167)                      #

1925)
1259
Professional Notes
part of her crew. She is expected to leave St. Nazaire two months hence
ior Lorient, where she will commission for her trials, that will be watched
with attention by the naval world. The Simouns are remarkable units in
every respect, and, as eighteen of the class are in hand already, and eighteen
more projected, which means they will be an important asset of French sea
power, they are well worth close investigation with a view to elucidating
the question of their fighting worth. In the first place, they mark a depar-
ture from previous French shipbuilding practices, whereas pre-war contre-
torpilleurs of the Bouchier type (of which over twenty units were built)
were inferior in size and caliber of guns and torpedoes to contemporary
British, American, and Italian destroyers, the Simouns, officially described
as torpilleurs d'escadre (a very modest appellation), are superior in most
respects to all British destroyers in commission excepting Aotilla leaders.
In their general design they are copied from the British V and W classes
-similar shape of hull (though in the French the bows are more swanlike,
overhanging and pleasing to the eye, and the sterns also different) and
superstructures. In the Simouns, however, there are three funnels, rather
slender and of inordinate length, closely packed together, the two aft being
very near, which makes them a rather conspicuous target, and is a matter
of criticism among older officiers de vasseau, who question whether tor-
pilleurs so bulky and vulnerable will ever be able to launch their torpedoes
with chances of success. In truth, they are canonnieres rapides rather than
torpilleurs, as the gift of invisibility is totally denied to them. They will
be, in the light of the last conflict, excellent patrol boats for either screen-
ing a battle squadron or watching or blockading a hostile base, and, lastly,
they will be in a position to engage contemporary rivals with fair chances
owing to the superiority of caliber and range of their guns. Boats of such
seakeeping power and endurance French admirals would have welcomed
during the war, and Admirals Dartige du Fournet, Ronarch, for instance,
bitterly complained of the fragility and inferior armament of their contre-
tor pilleurs.
Similar reproaches nobody will think of applying to the Simouns. They
are larger than the British W's by nearly 150 tons, have 3,000 more horse-
power, and four 130 mil, versus four 120 mil. British guns, which means
longer range for the French, that have also the benefit of heavier and more
effective torpedoes. For ships of their class they have the maximum range
and hitting power, and, so far, are the best investment the Marine Francaise
has made in the torpedo boat line. Still, "the proof of the pudding is in
the eating," and the true value of these fine boats will depend on their
robustness and sea speed--two assets that are interdependent to a higher
degree than formerly owing to the tremendous strain on hulls with rates
of going exceeding 30 knots in choppy waters. The Simouns are expected
to develop from 35,000 to 40,000 h.p. on trial, and under favorable conditions
they ought to excel their nominal speed (33 knots) by 3 or 4 knots. Against
wind and seas their speed, of course, will be considerably reduced by their
great amount of top hamper, but even then the peculiar shape of their
sterns (that imitate those of big tugs) ought to be of good use to them.
It is felt that for 1,500-ton ships the 5.1-inch caliber of guns cannot safely
be exceeded; as the Italians have found out to their sorrow with the Aquila
class, that carry three 6-inch weapons, having insufficient command of fire
and being of little use in heavy weather. In the improved Simouns of
1,550 tons in hand, added robustness, speed, and fighting endurance have
been the improvements aimed at. The Simoun type, all points considered,
will be hard to beat by rival designers. The majority of our experts are
satisfied that it will prove a handy instrument of offensive in most circum-
stances of war, especially if its real speed can be increased as well as the
range of its torpedoes. Happily, war experience has taught French officers


  p. 1260 (#168)                      #

1260
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
the importance of efficient torpedoes, and torpedo design, construction, and
training are receiving special attention, and schools, laboratories, experi-
mental testing grounds have been created. A similar system is next to be
applied to the mining branch. France is making an effort with a view to
regaining her former supremacy for underwater warfare.
The armament of the Chacal class of destroyers (of which six are com-
pleting afloat and three on the point of being laid down), that was originally
to include six 130-mil. guns (two on twin mountings), has not been ap-
proved by naval opinion. The 5.1-inch gun (27 kilo shell) has no very great
superiority over the 4.7-inch caliber (21 kilo projectile) in the matter of
range and destroying power, and, moreover, twin mountings for small
quickfirers are not to be commended, being especially make-believe in nar-
row and quick rolling boats. In the cramped and crowded deck space of
destroyers even of great length (120) meters in the Chacals, 125 in the
new boats), there is not sufficient room for six gun positions at least with
the present fashion of distributing the whole armament on the axial line. It
is for this reason that British flotilla leaders have only five gun positions.
Even in longer ships, such as the British Delhis, of 4,800 tons, it has not
been easy to find six gun positions, and space is rather limited for the central
6-inch weapons; hence the necessity, if armament is to be strengthened, of
increasing the caliber of weapons rather than their number. It has been
decided, en principe, to mount in the new super-destroyers either 5.5-inch
ordnance (39 kilo shells) or light 6.1-inch guns (50 kilo shell), both cali-
bers assuring advantage of range over all destroyers in existence, and in
reality transforming new contretorpilleurs into destroyers of destroyers
(which was the name the British First Lord, Winston Churchill, gave ten
years since to the British Arethusas). L'Architecture navale est un per-
petual recommencement. Comparative.
In the cruiser line, also, superiority over all comers is what Gallic ex-
perts are aiming at The 8,000-ton Duguay-Trouins, now commissioning
for trials, though valuable on account of their extreme speed (over 35
knots), are undergunned and vulnerable 175 meters long targets; the 10,000-
ton Tourville and Duquesne, that carry 8-inch guns, do not appear to be in
any way better than their British American, or Italian rivals of similar
Washington displacement. Foolish it would be for France to invest her
meager finances in a few copies of rivals four or five times more numerous.
Superior quality must make up for inferior numbers, as it did when great
savants like Dupuy de Lôme and de Bussy (1860-1896), were in charge of
French Navy construction. The Paris Yacht judiciously denounces the
extreme vulnerability to gun, torpedo, and bombs of those 10,000-ton Wash-
ington cruisers of enormous length totally or insufficiently armored, capable
of dealing heavy blows at long range but powerless to withstand the same.
Despite their great age, the 14,000-ton croiseurs-cuirassés of the Quinet
type preserve good value in the face of such opponents.
Battle Cruisers and Croiseurs de Combat
The Naval and Military Record, 20 May, 1925.-Far-reaching conse-
quences for both France and England may be expected from the long-
prepared attack the Boche and Bolshevist subsidized Riffans are so cleverly,
and with such astonishing means of action, leading against the well-trained
but numerically inadequate troops of Marshal Lyautey, the famed con-
queror of Morocco. It is nothing less than a revolt of the Moslem world
against European rule, an extension of the anti-English movement in Egypt
and in India, containing in germs equal perils for our two countries.
Smuggling of arms by sea is the disquieting point. The nominally Spanish
coast must be blockaded; a colonial alliance between Spain and France is


  p. 1261 (#169)                      #

1925]
1261
Professional Notes
imperative, as well as a defensive entente between Great Britain and France
for their common safety.
Lieutenant Young's new volume translated into French: A bord des
Croisers de bataille (Librarie Payot, Paris) has attracted attention and
comments in naval circles; it gives a graphic insight into the life of those
great armored mastodons combining calibers and speed that played the de-
termining role in the naval war, a type of ship just now in favor in influential
navy quarters, and, besides, it enabled French naval students to understand
better the commanding personality of Admiral Beatty, the modern ex-
ponent of the Nelsonian doctrine which French experts are unanimous in
considering the true secret of victory. Joindre l'enemi et le battre avec des
forces superieures (Admiral Darrieus) has been the way of the best ad-
mirals of all times, and the greatest victories have been won through
"damning the risks," as Farragut so elegantly said. Trafalgar, Aboukir,
like Ostend and Zeebrugge, have only one explanation and justification :
namely, Audaces Fortuna juvat. In war extreme boldness is wisdom, and
this remains true notwithstanding mines and submarines. Admiral Beatty's
lack of an adequate flotilla force both in number and in size (which ac-
counted for the escape of the baby-killing Hipper squadron after the
Hartlepool and Scarborough bombardments) causes French readers to
appreciate the fighting worth of the fine new torpilleurs de'escadre of the
Simoun type (1,500 tons and 33 knots), of which twelve are practically
ready, and of the 2,400-ton Jaguar series of destroyers, of which six are also
to be commissioned at an early date. On the other hand, details which
M. Young gives in his book as to the several damaging interferences of the
London Admiralty with Admiral Beatty's freedom of action are held to
reflect unfavorably on the soundness of the present French naval organiza-
tion for war, in virtue of which all our squadrons and flotillas are to move
exclusively according to orders from Paris. In the last war Admiral de
Lapeyrére deliberately disregarded orders that Minister Augagneur, an ex-
ceedingly clever surgeon, but totally ignorant of ships, wired him to make
haste and with 20-knot battleships promptly catch the 28-knot Goeben and
Breslau.
The battle cruiser question is anew under investigation in Admiralty
quarters. To compete solely in 10,000-ton Washington limit cruisers would
be for France a losing game, since her present financial straits preclude the
possibility of her ever possessing numbers adequate to her needs. To make
up for inferior numbers French scientific genius must be allowed free scope
of action, as it was when Dupuy de Lôme threw all rivals into obsolescence
by creating the first steam battleship (Le Napoléon) and the first armored
frigate (La Gloire), and when de Bussy achieved similar success with his
epoch-making 6,300-ton Dupuy de Lôme, prototype of all croiseurs cuirasses.
Now, from a technical standpoint we have come back to a situation similar
to that of 1890. In those times there were only two great navies : namely,
the British and the French, and the British was building, wholesale, pro-
tected cruisers designed for broadside fighting. A victorious retort of de
Bussy was to encase completely the hull and armament of the Dupuy de
Lôme in light armor (110 mil.), then proof against 6-inch projectiles at
fighting range, and to distribute the eight single-gun turrets for end-on
tactics, that are, of course, the tactics of the weaker side. The Dupuy de
Lôme was a stroke of genius (in certain respects more original and more
creditable than the Dreadnought, that was mainly a miracle of size).
Retrospective and comparative investigation causes the Dupuy de Lôme de-
sign to be more admired now than she was at the time of her creation.
Thirty years ago British publicists were fond of expending ready wit on the
score of her ugliness (which was beauty when compared with today's
cruisers), but acknowledged her formidable strength.


  p. 1262 (#170)                      #

1262
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Therefore, the problem that the Section Technique is called upon to solve
consists in finding a modern counterpart to the Dupuy de Lôme capable of
throwing into relative obsolescence the two dozen unarmored 33-35-knot
croiseurs leger built or building. A result of that sort cannot be achieved
out of displacements inferior to 10,000 tons. Armored cruisers of under
10,000 tons, which would be enlarged copies of the excellent Latouche-
Treville (4,700 tons, complete armor with eight turrets, rather low free-
board, and reduced visibility), and in which extra protection would be
obtained at the expense both of the number of guns and of speed, would be
a doubtful investment, being powerless both to escape from the deadly grip
of 31-33-knot battle cruisers of the Hood and Renown and Tiger-Kongo
types and to catch 34-knot cruisers of the Kent-Trieste-Omaha classes.
Moreover, the new 8-inch weapons that will arm 10,000-ton Washington-
limit cruisers are vastly superior to the 20 and 21 centimeter guns employed
in the Great War, and it must not be thought that light armoring on pre-war
lines would do against them. Again, the advent of large sea-worthy de-
stroyers and of tempest-proof flying boats render close or even moderate
range unlikely in future contests. On this latter point, however, it is only
right to say that artificial cloud and camouflage tactics open new possi-
bilities and offer wide scope for surprises. Here, indeed, is the best argu-
ment for small tough armored cruisers of some 8,000 tons, 27 knots, and
six long-caliber 203 mil. guns.
A far better solution, however, is open the Section Technique as the
result of the right France has, under the Washington Agreement, to replace
the lost battleship France by 35,000 tons of capital ships. A 35,000-ton
counterpart to the British Nelson-Rodney type would only give emphemeral
worth to the obsolete Toulon battle squadron. Two 17,500-ton croiseurs de
combat of 35 knots, able in a seaway to catch up to 10,000-ton Washington
cruisers of however great paper speed and to crush them under the terrific
salvoes of eight weapons of 12-inch hore in quadruple turrets disposed for
end-on fire and for anti-chemical warfare, would for several years give to
France speed and caliber supremacy combined, especially as two more
croiseurs de combat of that class could be laid down in 1927. Long-range
salvo firing is considered by French specialists to be the key to the artillery
problem, and no longer mere caliber. To that end the quadruple turret is
to be revived, all the more so as recent experiments have shown it to offer,
at a minimum of cost, a maximum of offensive and defensive efficiency.
Of course, it would also be open to France to invest her 70,000 tons of
armored tonnage (1926-27) in six petits cuirassés de croi sière of 11,700
tons, 33 knots, four 9.4-inch long-caliber weapons, outranging the Wash-
ington type of cruisers and, at long range, being proof against 8-inch guns,
but it would be an inferior compromise and more costly in every way.
French Naval Policy
By Sir Herbert Russell, The Naval and Military Record, 20 May, 1925.-
The French Senate has sanctioned a “special credit” for new naval con-
struction during the course of the present financial year. It is a surprisingly
modest contribution, totalling only 33,000,000 francs, or little more than
one third of a million sterling. The program toward which it forms an
instalment comprises one light cruiser, three destroyers of the high sea, four
coastal torpedo boats, seven submarines, two submarine and one surface
minelayers, and one aircraft carrier. Naval construction is, relatively, con-
siderably more costly in France than in this country, and so it is abundantly
clear that very little progress will be made with these proposed vessels dur-
ing the current year.


  p. 1263 (#171)                      #

19251
1263
Professional Notes
No doubt there is a political reason at the back of this apparent modesty.
France is courting the financial good will of the United States. Apart from
the fact that President Coolidge is reported to be steadily working to bring
about another Washington Conference, if France were to undertake any
heavy naval expenditure at the present juncture she would be manifestly
weakening her plea of inability to pay her debts, and the necessity to in-
crease them.
The naval policy of France must always hold a very direct interest for
this country. True, it is an interest of quite a different character from
that which had existed as an immemorial tradition down to the era of the
entente cordiale. No longer is it the interest of rivalry, but of friendly con-
cern as to how far our next door neighbor is maintaining her place in the
balance of armed sea strength. That such a situation as arose in August,
1914, when the British fleet alone stood between the German Navy and the
French coast, is likely to recur in our time is inconceivable. But some day,
and well in our time, the German Navy will begin to expand again, and it
is eminently desirable that from the very day this process starts France
should not only be a long lap ahead, but in a position to remain so.
The new French program, in a very limited way, follows the doctrines of
the Jeune Ecole—the “Mosquito School," as it has been termed in this
country. It is purely a defensive program. Even as such, it is so inade-
quate, bearing in mind what very trifling progress can possibly be made with
it during the present year, that we must look beyond it and try and form
conclusions as to the French view of sea power. It is true that at the .
present time France has a larger number of submarines, built or projected,
than any other naval power, but she appears to be following very much the
principle that was illustrated in the case of our own Frobisher and Effing-
ham, so that this big underwater armada, categorically shown in the official
returns, is likely to remain only a paper force for some years to come. This
again is probably the result of financial stringency.
What I regard as probable is that France has arrived at a stage of com-
plete dubiety as to the future of naval warfare, and is marking time until
that future begins to unfold. Whether this is a wise policy I am not pre-
pared to say, but it is quite possible that it may react upon other naval
powers.
In the first place it seems tolerably clear that France has renounced the
capital ship. There is a small and influential body of French opinion which
is urging a return to battleship construction, but it is little more than a
voice in the wilderness. The Republic will continue to maintain such battle-
ships as remain to her so long as they are seaworthy (none of them can be
deemed war-worthy now by existing standards), but that she will replace
them as they fall into obsolescence is more than doubtful. Is she not setting
an example in this which may presently bear definite fruit with the other
great sea' powers? Italy has frankly abandoned the battleship, probably
for very much the same reasons which have induced France to do so.
Russia is negligible in this consideration. Germany must remain prob-
lematical for years to come, but I anticipate that the conclusions which in-
fluence the other great sea powers will be precisely the conclusions to which
Germany would come.
In the case of the Big Three, we have come to a hiatus which may yet
prove a definite break. Great Britain is building two battleships: when
they are completed neither she, nor the United States, nor Japan can lay
down any more capital ships for another seven years under the Washington
Treaty, except for the purposes of replacement, under very rigid conditions.
In other words, the Big Three cannot increase their capital ship strength
during the next seven years. When the Neilson and Rodney are ready to


  p. 1264 (#172)                      #

1264
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
take their place in the British fleet, four ships of the Iron Duke class have
to be removed from the Navy List.
We have already reached a stage when the value of the capital ship is a
subject of much uncertainty. During the next seven years that phase of
uncertainty may crystallize into definite conclusions. I believe it is true to
say that Great Britain, the United States and Japan are now maintaining
capital ships more from rivalry than from any policy of absolute conviction.
One cannot renounce them unless the others do, and for one to suggest it
may give rise to a mistaken impression.
The alleged view of the late Sir Percy Scott's midshipman, that the
battleship is "no damned good” is, of course, ridiculous, but the whole
tendency of sea warfare is to become more mobile and more elusive. The
stately old fleet action grows steadily more improbable as a decisive feature
of the future naval conflict, if only because of the ever-increasing difficulty
of forcing a reluctant enemy to come forth and accept battle. Meanwhile,
we find the naval ratios changing while the capital ship position remains
static. Captain Knox, of the United States Navy, has pointed out that the
real purpose of the Washington Agreement is becoming entirely neutralized.
Sea power has now to be measured in a new rule of values.
If a new Washington Conference is convened within the next seven
years, and the United States boldly proposes that the capital ship be aban-
doned, it seems more than likely that France and Italy would readily concur.
The attitude of Japan is problematical. The course of events does not sug-
gest that she is likely to receive with enthusiasm any proposals which
emanate from the United States. On the other hand, if America abandoned
the battleship Japan could certainly afford to do so. Her rôle in the Pacific
is likely to be a defensive one. That is to say, in any war into which she
might be drawn, her policy would be to await attack, in the zone of her own
choice, and as remote from all enemy bases as possible. To such a stra-
tegic purpose her present program of "numbers and mobility” is well suited.
Our own position in the matter, I imagine, will be that of a disposition to
agreement. In other words, I can hardly believe that Great Britain would
stand out for the retention of the capital ship if all the other principal naval
powers concurred in the proposal to abandon her. Naturally, there will be
an instinctive recoil from the idea of breaking with such a great tradition,
but no confusion of sentiment must be permitted to obscure the strictly
practical question. The enforced inactivity of the battle fleets during the
Great War was an object lesson which challenges serious reflection. “Silent
pressure" was all very well in the days when it kept the enemy fleet shut
up in his ports, but the submarine, the destroyer, and the fast cruiser have
changed all that. Sea war tends to become more of a guerilla business,
mainly directed against commerce. The grand fleet was impotent to arrest
the German ( boat campaign, which came dangerously near to accomplish-
ing its purpose. France, I believe, clearly realizes the purport of that les-
son, and this is why her naval policy—or more strictly speaking, her naval
building programs—must have a particular interest for other sea powers.
French Foreign Trade
The Engineer, 24 April, 1925.— The returns of foreign trade during the
first three months of the year show a declension in the values of imports
and exports as compared with the figures for the corresponding period of
1924. On analyzing the returns, however, it is seen that they are far more
favorable than could have been anticipated in view of the heavy duties im-
posed upon French goods imported into Germany since the beginning of the
year. If Germany is taking less it is evident that more is being sent to
other markets. So far as imports are concerned the total value of 9,825


  p. 1265 (#173)                      #

1925)
1265
Professional Notes
million francs was 391 million francs below the figure for the first three
months of 1924. There was a decline in foodstuffs and more particularly in
raw material, especially coal. The value of exports totalled 10,920 million
francs, a decline of 53 millions; but this was due entirely to foodstuffs,
many descriptions of which are not allowed to be exported, and the returns
would seem to imply that France is consuming her own agricultural products
instead of sending them away and purchasing others to make up for a deficit.
There was a notable increase in the value of manufactured goods exported,
the total of 6,535 million francs being 154 millions more than in the first
quarter of last year. Raw material exports amounted to 3,035 million francs,
an augmentation of 9,420,000f. The increases in manufactured goods were
due largely to iron and steel, textiles and motor cars. When studying
quantities it is observable that out of a total of 11,440,920 tons of imports
raw material was responsible for 10,130,875 tons, and there was a reduction
in the total of 1,695,053 tons. The exports amounted to 7,883,111 tons, an
increase of 1,304,722 tons. This augmentation was due principally to raw
material, which accounted for 6,493,192 tons, while the quantity of manu-
factured goods sent away was 1,040,251 tons, an increase of 83,517 tons.
GERMANY
Regulation-Lights and Rules of the Road for Rotorships
Hansa, 7 March, 1925.-On January 30, 1925, the Minister for Trade and
Commerce of the Reich addressed the following communication to the
Deutsche Seeschiffahrtstag:
Tests of Flettner's rotor system for the utilization of wind-pressure for
the propulsion of ships on the high seas have now progressed sufficiently to
show that the system is of practical utility, and that the experimental ship
Buckau will make further voyages overseas.
The rotorship is distinguished externally by two revolving turrets or
towers, 15 m. high and about 3 m. in diameter, one of which is fitted for-
ward (on the forecastle), the other aft (on the poop). In addition to the
towers (rotors) the ship is fitted with a motor, which drives a propeller.
On her future voyages the rotorship will meet other ships at sea, more
than hitherto, and it therefore becomes necessary to clearly define the posi-
tion of the rotorship and her action at sea, with respect to the Rules of the
Road, corresponding to the international regulations for preventing colli-
sions at sea.
Legislative enactment of special regulations cannot be hurried, as first
of all practical experience will have to be gained and collected. Therefore,
the following guiding rules are laid down as an experimental measure to
meet the case of applying the Rules of the Road at Sea to rotorships, said
regulations being published in the Nachrichten für Seefahrer (compare with
page 268 of Hansa.)
1. When the ship is using the motor, the vessel is, in the sense of the
Rules of the Road, to be regulated in the light of a steamer, even though
the rotors are also being used at the same time. The regulations for
steamers will be obeyed in every particular.
2. When the ship is sailing solely by wind power with the aid of the
rotors, the vessel is to be regarded as a sailing ship in the sense of the Rules
of the Road, in the daytime, however, excepting the provisions of Article 17.
The regulations for sailing ships will be obeyed with the sole exception
that the rotorship, on account of her greater maneuvering capacity, will,
in the daytime, make way for every other sailing ship.
The black ball hoisted on the light-mast over the stem on steamers, in
accordance with Article 14 of the Rules of the Road, will also be hoisted,
notwithstanding the exception aforesaid.


  p. 1266 (#174)                      #

1266
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
At night the rotorship, if using rotors only, will act as a sailing ship,
and will carry sailing ship lights only.
3. In foggy weather the motor will always be used. The ship will act
as a steamer.
All other seagoing ships are advised to take note of these rules carried
out by rotorships, and to maneuver their ships accordingly, in order to
avoid getting into dangerous situations.
I respectfully request that the question of the action of rotorships in the
light of the Rules of the Road at Sea be made the subject of discussion in
seafaring circles, and that the outcome of these discussions be communicated
to me in due course.
The board of the Seeschiffahrtstag remitted this communication to a
committee with the request to report. This committee was composed of the
following gentlemen: President: Captain A. Simonsen, Hamburg, Director
Reichenbacher, Hamburg-American Line, Inspector Peterson, (F. Lacisz,
Shipowner, Hamburg) Chief Harbor Master Oertel, Hamburg, Captain
Coltzan, Hamburg, and reported as follows:
1. Rotorships are to be regarded in the same light as motor sailing
ships (and sailing ships with auxiliary engine), and should be subject to
the same Rules and Regulations, that is to say, a rotorship which sails with
the help of her "sailing turrets” only, is to be considered a sailing ship;
when the ship, however, uses the motor and propeller only or in conjunction
with the turrets, the ship is to be considered a steamer, in the sense of the
Rules of the Road at Sea.
2. Rotorships, when sailing with rotors only (that is to say as sailing
ships), shall hoist, in accordance with Article 14 of the Rules of the Road
at Sea, instead of the black ball, a black cone at least 65ctm. high and in
diameter.
ARGUMENTS IN SUPPORT OF ABOVE PROPOSALS
In re 1) The regulations for rotorships which the Ministry for Com-
merce and Trade proposes to issue (II S No 457 II dng of January 30,
1925) order, that the rotorship is to be regarded as a steamer, in the sense
of the Rules of the Road at Sea, when using engine and propeller, even
when the rotors are also being used. This is in keeping with present regu-
lations applicable to motor sailing ships (and sailing ships with auxiliary
engine). The regulations of the Ministry of Commerce and Trade propose,
however, to impose upon the rotorship the duty, even when sailing solely by
wind power with the rotors, of making way in the daytime for every other
sailing ship, whereas as against steamers, the ship in these circumstances is
to be regarded as a sailing ship. At night, however, under the same con-
ditions, she is to be sailing ship entirely, carrying sailing ship's lights. That
would place rotorships in the position of hybrids, and would lead to all sorts
of confusion and dangerous complications. Then again, the regulation
suggested, that the rotorship, sailing without the engine, shall in the day-
time make way for all sailing ships, but at night shall act as a sailing ship
entirely, would create grave situations on the border line between night
and day (dawn and twilight), inasmuch as, in the moment of sunrise or
sunset respectively, the duty to give way would under certain circumstances
automatically pass from one ship and be imposed upon another.
It is also wrong from the point of seamanship and impracticable to de-
mand of a rotorship, sailing "close hauled" (against the wind) with rotors
only, that she shall give way to sailing ships sailing with a fair wind and
aft. That is a regulation prejudicing the rotorship, for which there is no
justification, as the rotorship is every bit as much dependent upon the wind
as any other sailing ship, even though she can sail closer to the wind than a
ship with yards and square sails, but that is a feature possessed by fore and
aft schooners and yachts also.


  p. 1267 (#175)                      #

1925]
1267
Professional Notes
Confused and ill-defined, and consequently dangerous regulations are a
serious menace to the safety of shipping. The regulations suggested, more-
over, constitute an unnecessary oppression and prejudice for rotorships.
The committee has therefore arrived at the conviction that nothing but the
application to rotorships of the regulations as at present in force for motor
sailing ships will assure clear, distinct and unambiguous conditions, and the
committee therefore feels impelled earnestly to recommend the adoption
of the regulations it has proposed, all the more so, as allowance must be
made for the fact, that in all probability there will sooner or later be
rotorships having neither engine nor propeller.
The "practical" experience with the ministry's provisional regulations
would probably have to be dearly paid for by shipping, and prove to be a
serious obstacle in the way of economic exploitation of this new German
invention. It is also not to be expected that the other seafaring nations will
agree to such regulations, and consequently they would be nothing but a
source of trouble and danger for the rotorships.
The regulation that the rotorship shall always use the auxiliary engine
in foggy weather is also an unnecessary burden, and not always practicable,
inasmuch, as we have already stated, as there will be rotorships that have
no auxiliary engines.
In re 2) It is absolutely necessary for other ships to be able to dis-
tinguish at all times and instantly, whether a rotorship is using the engine
and propeller or not. In other words, whether she is sailing as a steamer
or as a sailing ship. As from the bridge of other ships it is impossible to
see whether the rotors are in use, or whether they alone are in use, the
rotorship must carry a signal when sailing with rotors only, and it is sug-
gested that the signal be in the form of a black cone. It appears necessary
to decide upon the cone, as in the prospective “Traffic Regulations for Ger-
man Seawater Ways and Routes, Section I," a black ball has been selected
as the signal for ships at anchor, and a black cylinder as the signal for
right of way.
The committee also feels constrained to express its opinion to the effect,
that Article 14 of the Rules of the Road at Sea, seeing that owing to de-
velopments in shipping it is utterly outpaced and antiquated, calls for speedy
amendment; above all, the following sentence should be stricken out:
".... but sails with funnel upright in position.” Nowadays, many motor
sailing ships do not carry the black ball, simply because they have not got
a funnel, and consequently do not take the regulation as applying to them-
selves. At present, therefore, there is, in the case of a sailing motor sail-
ing ship, no possibility of determining whether she is using her engine
also, and consequently should be treated as a steamer.
A revision of Article 14 is therefore an absolute necessity, and the com-
mittee is of opinion that the consideration of this question should be taken
in hand as soon as possible.
UNITED STATES
America's Naval Policy-A British View
By Sir Herbert Russell, The Naval and Military Record, 13 May, 1925.-
In the course of the next few weeks, on the conclusion of grand maneuvers
around the Sandwich Islands, the United States Pacific fleet is proceeding
to Australia. The tour, of course, is in the nature of a friendly visit. It
was decided upon without consultation with Australia, for on being ques-
tioned upon the matter the Commonwealth Premier said that he had seen
the statements in the press and had written to the Navy Department at
Washington to inquire whether they were correct. No doubt the explana-
tion for this is that the press statements were premature.


  p. 1268 (#176)                      #

1268
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
No naval force of the size and power of the Pacific fleet has ever before
visited a foreign country. While the friendly nature of the occasion is
fully realized in Great Britain, it is not unnatural that there should be a
disposition to look rather beyond this aspect of it. “Flag showing" is usually
practiced by single ships or light squadrons. When it is carried out by the
most modern battle fleet in the world, public interest becomes focused upon
the sea power and the sea policy of the navy to which that fleet belongs.
The United States has never, as far as I am aware, vouchsafed any
definition of her naval policy, but we may infer this from her distribution
of naval force and the general character of her naval maneuvers. Since
the opening of the Panama Canal in 1914 she has regarded the Pacific as
her cardinal zone. Her Atlantic fleet was reduced in order to strengthen the
Pacific fleet, and under the scheme of war organization the two are re-
garded as a unified command, since under normal conditions they could
link up on either seaboard within a very few days.
That the opening of the Panama Canal imparted a great and progressive
stimulus to American trade with the Far East and Australasia, as well as
with the western South American ports, is a matter of common knowledge.
Possibly, it is not generally recognized in this country how vast this volume
of trade has become, nor how essential it is to American prosperity. Adverse
exchanges are likely to adversely affect the European markets for years to
come. By the time Europe recovers from this economic blight her markets
will be flooded with her own manufactures. Looking east, the prospect is
not very attractive to United States industry; looking west (that is to
say, toward Australia and the Far East) it is far more promising.
Commercial interest, or national prosperity, if a more euphonious term be
sought, is the basis of all modern military policy. National defense simply
means the safeguarding of possessions of such value as to excite the envy of
less prosperous countries. The element of personal quarrels no longer de-
cides war; it has become much too vast and costly an undertaking to be
waged on such grounds. No doubt sentiment makes all the difference be-
tween a popular war and an unpopular one. The decision of this country
to enforce the sanctity of a treaty was a popular one, but behind this direct
casus belli with Germany lay the perception that the doctrine of Deutsch-
land über alles must be scotched, otherwise we should be one of the alles.
On these grounds, then, the Pacific claims the attention of the United
States in just the same way as the Mediterranean claims our attention, but
there is this difference in the comparison, France and Italy having renounced
the relative status of first class naval powers, there is no question of rivalry
in our naval dominance of the Middle Sea. Japan remaining a first class
naval power, and, what is more, a Pacific power, it becomes difficult to
dissociate United States naval policy from the idea of rivalry with her.
Great Britain has interests in the Pacific which are quite as vast as those
of the United States, but there is this distinction. The bulk of British
Pacific trade is with the Empire ; nearly the whole of the United States
Pacific trade is with foreign countries. We have to consider the protection
of great territories; the United States is only concerned with very little
territories. On the other hand, we have this advantage: inter-Empire trade
is not susceptible to prejudicial influences from alien treaties as is foreign
trade. Therefore, Japan as a sea power in the Pacific does not stand in
quite the same relation to ourselves that she does to the United States, unless
indeed we choose to think of her as possibly harboring designs upon British
Empire territories, which is an idea I do not imagine anybody contemplates
very seriously..
Strategically, Japan is so remote from the United States that the notion
of her sea power constituting a menace to her western shores is rather
extravagant. If, in the event of war, she could successfully attack the


  p. 1269 (#177)                      #

1925]
1269
Professional Notes
Panama Canal, and render it even temporarily impassable, it would cer-
tainly be a tremendous coup, but the "if" is altogether too colossal to be
gravely entertained.
Frankly, I do not see why American naval policy need threaten an ulti-
mate conflict with Japan, save with one reservation, to which I will come
later. A dominant navy must dominate somewhere. The Pacific is the
natural sphere for United States naval activity. It is likewise the inevitable
sphere for Japanese naval activity, but the Pacific is such a vast ocean that
there is room for both navies without any apprehension that an ultimate
clash must necessarily result. From Plymouth to New York is only about
half the distance of from Yokohama to San Francisco, yet both Great
Britain and the United States maintain Atlantic fleets without any idea of
rivalry-unless in the minds of such unaccountable people as Mr. William
Shearer.
But the reservation of which I have spoken is the one shadow on the
horizon. Japanese policy in China is viewed with anything but favor in the
United States. Japan pleads ethnological needs as her justification. Trade
competition is not disposed to admit any justification for a policy which
thwarts it. China is like a weakened giant sinking to his knees. Some day
there may be intervention on the part of the powers to save his body from
dismemberment, and set him on his legs again. This will be the danger
point. Self-interest is bound to disclose itself at such a juncture. Japan
wants, and simply must have, room for the expansion of her over-teeming
population, and she must have trade if her economic future is to develop.
She is finding both in China, and is steadily exploiting opportunity. The
United States has become so imbued with the spirit of the Monroe Doctrine
that she resents Japanese penetration of China. She is likely to resent it
more as the effects manifest themselves upon American trade. How far
this situation may become a grave menace to peace none will venture to
say. The time is not yet, although intervention in China might precipitate it.
I believe popular opinion in Australia rather inclines to the American
view in regard to this problem. Australia is distrustful of Japan. She has
no definite cause for being so, only the fact that at any time the Japanese
Navy could have Australia at its mercy. The attitude of Australia on the
Singapore question is pretty good evidence of her frame of mind. Let us
admit at once that were it not for Australia we certainly should not be
troubling ourselves about Singapore.
The United States, of course, is perfectly aware of the Australian view
on the subject of Pacific sea power. America realizes that Australia will
see in the visit of the Pacific fleet a further assurance of security against
any "Yellow Peril." America may also assume that the "Yellow Peril"
itself will take the hint. One thing it is impossible to deny: the visit to
Australia gives very definite point to the strategic scheme of the maneuvers
which the Pacific fleet is carrying out before proceeding there. That scheme
postulates joining issue with Japanese sea power.
The Pacific fleet is perfectly free to visit Australia, and Australia is
perfectly free to warmly welcome the Pacific fleet, without any reference
at all to the Mother Country, yet the British Navy becomes politically in-
volved in the event. Already certain Japanese newspapers have referred to
it as something more than a mere coincidence, following so soon upon the
restoration of the Singapore scheme. Scarcely had the Conference of Ad-
mirals concluded at Singapore before the whole of the United States Asiatic
fleet arrived at the port on a visit of several days' duration. Can we alto-
gether wonder that Japanese national opinion is beginning to find tangible
evidence of an Anglo-American "understanding" on the subject of the naval
hegemony of the Pacific?


  p. 1270 (#178)                      #

1270
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
It may be American naval policy to foster such an impression. In her
portentous "aloofness" the United States tells the little outside world noth-
ing, and therefore opinion must seek its own conclusions. A war with
America, Japan would certainly not like, but she would not shirk it as the
alternative to being “cribbed, cabined and confined" from what she deems
to be her proper place in the world. A war with America and the British
Empire she could scarcely contemplate. The odds are too impossible for
mere heroism and "bushido” to face.
But, there is another point of view not to be wholly disregarded in this
consideration: the point of view of the British Empire. Australia may,
and probably does, concur in the American conception, as I understand it.
Is the presumptive Australian view that the British Navy is not perfectly
adequate, and perfectly ready, to protect Australia an impression to be
allowed to go by default? I do not think that any such conception can be
good for the British Empire. Observe, Singapore is a scheme obviously
undertaken primarily for the benefit of Australia, yet the little settlement
of Hong-kong is voluntarily bearing the cost of the first year's work.
Australia may some day be doing more buying and selling with America
than with Great Britain. That would be quite in the legitimate order of
things, but any policy which implicates the British Navy is the business of
the entire British Empire. The people who cheered the special service
squadron in Sydney a year ago must have felt this at the time.
I may be reading into the pending visit of the Pacific fleet far more than
entered into the contemplation of those who organized it, but a great battle
fleet is an instrument of world significance, and when it does anything out-
side of the normal course, reflection gets busy. In any case, the event is a
great demonstration of American sea power. Australia will enjoy the mag-
nificent sea pageant, although incidentally I should not wonder if harbor
authorities are not a little worried as to how they are to berth or moor con-
siderably over one hundred warships.
We cannot ever divest a warship of her real character. Nelson said that
a British frigate is the best negotiator in Europe, since she always spoke to
be understood. She may be the best possible harbinger of friendship, but
when she goes avisiting, not singly, but in squadrons, she inevitably assumes
a political significance which may be interpreted in more ways than one.
We may employ some of our weapons to salute a neighboring state, but we
do not bring out the bulk of our armory for the purpose. Suppose the
Japanese Minister of Marine were to announce that the entire battle fleet of
his country proposed to pay a visit of friendship to Manila in July next,
I wonder what the United States Press would make of it. I do not question
that the Japanese fleet would receive a most hospitable welcome, but would
there not be just a little consternation at such a prodigious manifestation
of amicable feeling ?
Last Word on the 5-5-3 Ratio
The Scientific American, May, 1925.-We have before us a copy of the
recent hearing before a subcommittee of the House Committee on Appro-
priations-a volume of 1,000 pages—which contains the most complete data
on the Navy that we have ever seen in a document of this character. The
Secretary of the Navy and the officers at the heads of departments were
subjected to a very searching examination, particularly as to the status of
our treaty battleship fleet, and the public is now put in possession of the
facts.
The hearing constitutes a complete refutation of the propaganda of the
past few years, which sought to persuade the American public that our
battleship fleet was far below the standing of five in the treaty allocation


  p. 1271 (#179)                      #

1925]
1271
Professional Notes
of 5-5-3 to the United States, Great Britain and Japan. The most startling
disclosure is that of the enormous range of the guns of the 32,600-ton battle-
ships which would lead our fleet into battle. These ranges are from 34,500
yards to 35,700 yards. So far as we know, this is the first time these figures
have been made public, and they constitute a knockout blow to those who
have claimed that our fleet is outranged and outspeeded by any other fleet.
As a matter of fact, the "boot is on the other leg," for the extreme range
of the latest British battleships is only 24,300 yards, or from 10,000 to
11,000 yards less than that of our leading ships. The enormous significance
of this is seen from the following considerations.
It is universally agreed that, as in the great war, so in any war of the
future, battleship actions will be fought with the respective feets drawn
up in two parallel lines, or, as it is technically known, "in column." No
matter how high may be the speed of individual ships, the speed of the
whole column as such will be governed by that of the slowest ship in the
fleet. This speed is about the same in the two fleets, the slowest American
ship being credited with a speed of 20.5 knots and the slowest British ship
with a speed of 21 knots. It is probable that, in the unlikely event of a naval
battle between us and the British, the two fleets would settle down to a speed
CAPITAL SHIPS OF THE UNITED STATES
Turret Guns
Name of Ship
Diameter of
Bore in Inches
Maximum Angle of
Elevation in Degrees
Length in
Calibers
Range in
Yards
Speed in
Knots
Displacement
in Tons
21.2
.......
West Virginia.
Colorado.......
Maryland.
California .....
Tennessee.......
Idaho..............
New Mexico.
Mississippi
Arkansas ........
Wyoming.......
Arizona .........
Pennsylvania....
Oklahoma......
Nevada
New York....
34,500
34,500
34,500
35,500
35,700
24,000
24,000
24,000
24,350
23,500
21,000
21,000
21,000
21,000
21,000
21,000
22,000
21,600
21.4
21.1
21.7
21.4
21.3
21.1
21.1
21.1
21.2
21.0
21.1
20.6
32,600
32,600
32,600
32,300
32,300
32,000
32,000
32,000
26,000
26,000
31,400
31,400
27,500
27,500
27,000
27,000
21,825
21,825
20.5
Texas...
21.5
21.0
22.1
21.0
Florida
Ulah ........
Grant Total.
525,850


  p. 1272 (#180)                      #

1272
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
of about 20 knots. The British line includes five 25-knot ships and four
battle cruisers credited with speeds of 29 to 31.5 knots. Whatever might
happen during the approach of the two feets, it is certain that when they
fell into line for the great test, these faster vessels would have to hold their
speeds down to the fleet fighting speed of 20 knots.
If the weather is clear, and we will suppose it is, and if airplane and
general scouting information has been ample and correct, the two fleets will
deploy into column before they come within range. Thereafter they will
approach each other on more or less converging courses. Now let us see
what would happen. The head of the British line, containing their latest
ships of the Royal Sovereign class, would come under the fire of the head
of our line at a distance of over seventeen and a half miles, or at a distance
where their own 15-inch guns, firing at maximum elevation, would drop
their shells 10 to 11,000 yards, or five to five and a half miles, short of the
American line. They would not dare to come in end-on, because in that
position they would be raked by our salvos, and in spite of the dispersion
of the falling shells, a single eight-gun salvo might drop from three to
half-a-dozen shells upon the deck of any ship thus approaching. Hence, the
approach would be made on a converging course, and instead of fifteen
minutes it would take some twenty-five minutes or more for the British to
get within range. During all that time they would be exposed to heavy
shell fire of a most devastating character to which they could make no reply.
With our system of fire control, and assuming airplane spotting to be pos-
sible, it would be possible to drop between 1,000 and 1,200 shells upon the
leading ships of the British line before they could get in close enough to
return our fire.
It is surely no exaggeration to say that, under existing circumstances,
if our fleet were able to maintain airplane spotting, the head of the British
line would be crumpled up and either severely crippled or put entirely out
of the fight before it could get within hitting range.
At the fleets continued to close in, the British with a range of 24,300
yards, and the next five of our ships with from 23,500 to 24,000 yards,
would engage each other. At this time our eight older ships with 21,000 to
22,000 yards range would be outranged by the opposing British ships by
from 1,800 yards to 2,800 yards. Our own line, of course, would close in
until these older ships could reach the enemy; but for several minutes the
tail end of the British line would have the advantage of ours. But this
temporary advantage of the enemy over our older ships, which would last
for four to six minutes, would not compensate for the fact that for twenty-
five minutes at the commencement of the action the best ships of the British
line had been subjected to an overwhelming gun fire to which they could
make no reply.
The British line would include four battle cruisers, of which the Hood
alone, with guns of 30,300 yards range and 12-inch armor, could stand up
to the fire of the 14-inch and 12-inch guns of our older ships. The other
three, Renown, Repulse and Tiger, with only 9-inch armor, would probably
share the fate of the three battle cruisers, that were sunk by 11-inch and
12-inch gun fire early in the battle of Jutland.
It is for these reasons that we are satisfied that the American public,
on looking a tthese two tables, will agree with us that, far from our fleet
being outranged, and outspeeded, we ourselves have the whiphand, and with
equal gunnery and equal seamanship could very reasonably count upon a
sweeping victory.
And let it be clearly understood that if the proposed elevation of all of
the guns of our fleet to thirty degrees were followed out, not merely our
"big five” but our whole fleet of eighteen ships would have the enemy under
fire for from fifteen up to twenty-five minutes before he could reach us.


  p. 1273 (#181)                      #

1925]
1273
Professional Notes
CAPITAL SHIPS OF THE BRITISH NAVY
Turrent Guns
Name of Ship
Maximum Angle of
Elevation in Degrees
Diameter
of Bore in
Inches
Length in
Calibers
Range in
Yards
Speed in
Knots
Displacement
in Tons
21.6
21.5
21.9
21.6
21.5
25.0
25.0
25.0
25.0
Royal Sovereign....
Royal Oak..
Revenge . ......
Resolution ...
Ramilies.
Molaya.......
Valiant...........
Barham ........
Oueen Elizabeth
Warspite .......
Hood........
Renown......
Repulse
Tiger .......
Benbow..................
Emperor of India.
Iron Duke
Marlborough.
Thunderer ......
King George...
Ajax.........
Centurion.......
&&&&&&&&&AAAA88888888
24,300
24,300
24,300
24,300
24,300
24,300
24,300
24,300
24,300
24,300
30,300
24,300
24,300
23,800
23,800
23,800
23,800
23,800
23,800
23,800
23,800
23,800
25,750
25,750
25,750
25,750
25,750
27,500
27,500
27,500
27,500
27,500
41,200
26,500
26,500
28,500
25,000
25,000
25,000
25,000
*22,500
*23,000
*23,000
*23,000
15
25.0
31.5
31.5
31.0
29.0
21.5
21.5
21.6
21.6
21.
21.4
15
13.5
13.5
13.5
13.5
13.5
13.5
13.5
13.5
13.5
21.1
21.9
Grand Total..
.580,450
* These four to be scrapped when Nelson and Rodney are completed, when total
will be 558,950, against United States 525,850; the extra tonnage allowed to offset
greater age of British Fleet.
Such a change would vitiate the nice balance which was determined upon
between our officers and those of the British in the selection of the respec-
tive battleship fleets, and would place us at an enormous fighting advantage.
It was brought out at the hearing that, with the exception of the Florida,
the boilers of the ships which had to reduce their speed in the Panama
maneuvers had been repaired and that these ships can now make their trial
speeds. The Florida is in port for similar repairs.
In conclusion, there are two duties which confront the United States-
first, to grant, without any reduction, the appropriations asked by the Navy
Department for repair work; and secondly, to bring our fleet up to treaty
strength in unarmed cruisers, fast scouts, airplane carriers and such vessels
as are not limited by treaty.


  p. 1274 (#182)                      #

1274
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ENGINEERING
Great Future Predicted for Electric Propulsion
The Westinghouse News, 16 April, 1925.—Electricity, the miraculous
labor saver, wealth producer and greatest agent known to raise the stand-
ards of living, is continuously seeking new fields of application.
At times it brings in fads like radio, and with the swiftness of an over-
right conversion, establishes a new industry appealing to the imagination of
millions whom it daily serves with education, entertainment, comfort and
novelty. In the field of radio, electricity is changing the political aspect of
nations and is swiftly bringing about new international relations, inducing
foreign travel and establishing business and better social relations.
Radio broadcasting was the outgrowth of years of research and experi-
mentation, but the public paid little attention to these trying years. Those
professional organizations that years ago shunned it and tried to hide it for
fear of its probable effect on their systems of communication, today embrace
it closer than a brother as the fear of its power has been changed to a high
regard for its unexpected present and possible future developments.
The public mind is so filled with radio and its achievements that they
quite naturally overlook electricity conquering a new industry, the last one
of the great industries to give it a half a chance to demonstrate its unrivaled
energy, power and ability to achieve.
This industry is the marine industry which in its major part consists of
operating, loading and unloading ships. Tenaciously the ship owners clung
to sail for motive power as wind was the cheapest form of power. When
reciprocating engines were developed its chief opponents were those in favor
of the sail, but their arguments for the cheapest power was gradually over-
come as the faster and more reliable steamships gradually and then quite
suddenly almost entirely replaced the sail ship.
Economic conditions and good business reasons such as running on reg-
ular schedules was a handicap too great for the sail ships.
Electricity, the most restless of all forces, now engages this industry and
is applying its never-failing energy and power in all phases of work from
loading of a ship with greater ease, speed and safety, to controlling and
driving ships of all classes from 138-ton tug to a 43,500-ton displacement
airplane carrier.
Electricity has been installed for propulsion power on sixty-three ships,
according to a paper presented this morning, April 16, 9:30 A. M., by
H. Franklin Harvey, Jr., Electrical Engineer of the Newport News Ship-
building and Dry Dock Company and D. E. Thau, Marine Engineer of the
Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company. All of these installa-
tions have been made since 1908 and their number embraces practically all
classes of ships-fire boats, barges, tug boats, ferry boats, auxiliary
schooners, sea-going yachts, river yachts, stern wheel river tow boats,
tankers, seagoing hopper dredges, river boats, dredges, passenger-cargo
ships, cargo vessels, fruit carriers, fuel ships, battle ships and airplane
carriers.
The outstanding feature of electric propulsion which included its various
forms, turbine-electric with alternating and direct current systems, Diesel-
electric propulsion with direct current system with single and double arma-
ture propulsion motors and pilot house control, was included in their com-
prehensive paper.
Practically all forms of ship propulsion, excepting sail, were reviewed in
order to show the advantages of turbine and Diesel-electric propulsion over
those of the reciprocating engine, turbine direct, turbine-gear and direct
Diesel drives.


  p. 1275 (#183)                      #

1925]
1275
Professional Notes
The principle objections to the reciprocating engines, especially for larger
installations, was said to be its weight, space factors and fuel cost. The
turbine-direct drive was declared only 62.75 per cent efficient as the turbines
and propellers must be run at compromised speeds. The direct turbine drive
is also said to have rather poor maneuvering qualities and was slow in stop-
ping when the screws were going full speed ahead. The turbine gear drive,
which is used in the speedy scout cruisers and destroyers, was regarded as
satisfactory where high-speed light turbine and low-speed propellers are
required on account of weight considerations. These considerations like-
wise were said to apply to low-speed cargo vessels where turbine geared
drive is in general lighter in weight, and where transmission efficiency is
probably better than that of the electric drive; the latter, however, was
said to almost equalize in efficiency when the losses in reversing were con-
sidered.
The direct Diesel drive, with its high fuel economy and other advantages,
at the present time has its limitations in size, capacity, reversing charac-
teristics and a slight compromise must be made as the efficient running speed
of the Diesel engine and the efficient speed of a propeller differs, but the
difference between these two is not great enough for the installation of re-
duction gears.
Electric ship propulsion, which has some special outstanding advantages
for all types of craft, finds its greatest advantages for application in ships
requiring a wide cruising radius reliability in machinery, refined control,
reserved power, Alexibility of machinery arangements and low consumption
of fuel when under way and particularly at port, was then discussed in
detail for barges, cable ships, cargo ships, certain naval crafts, coastwise
vessels, dredges, self-propelled, ferry boats, fire boats, fishing boats, lake
boats, liners, light ships, packets, river boats, tow boats, tug boats and yachts.
The outstanding features of the electrice drive included easy and clean
operation, low maintenance costs, accurate control, maneuvering and re-
versing characteristics, efficient speed reductions, quietness of operation and
the greatest power available required when the ship is retarded by heavy
seas, storms or when towing another ship or barges. Likewise the system
of meters recorded the slightest variation of operation making it possible
to correct defects before serious trouble resulted and ease of making re-
pairs at sea.
The torque of propulsion motor which gives additional power when re-
sistance of the propeller is greatest can practically only be compared with
a creek or river which develops the greatest power when it is dammed.
Likewise the propulsion of a tug boat and other electrically propelled craft
develops its greatest power when the ship is retarded by heavy seas and
quick maneuvering.
For turbine-electric drive, alternating current was said to be the most
efficient for high powers, while direct current has been successfully used in
ferry boats. The alternating current permits high voltages with less cur-
rent and consequently smaller inter-connecting cables. The electrical ma-
chinery used for turbo-electric installations are practically the same for
marine as land installations excepting that it is treated to withstand marine
conditions of moisture and salt.
For Diesel-electric drive, direct current has been used with practically all
of the thirty-four installations and was said to be decidedly simpler, more
flexible and reliable, afforded more refined control, provides greater power
in case of casualty to a generating unit and makes possible pilot house
control such as the Ward-Leonard system which is described the most
satisfactory and used in mostly all of the Diesel-electric installations to date.
Pilot house control which has the greatest safety factor where con-
siderable maneuvering is required in close waters, at the present time, is only


  p. 1276 (#184)                      #

1276
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
practical with Diesel-electric drive. On a certain steam tug where it was
necessary for the pilot to signal the engine-room crew for changes of engine
speed and direction, it was found that 566 signals passed between the pilot
house and the engine room during an eight-hour day. With the Diesel elec-
tric tug and Ward-Leonard system of pilot house control, engaged in the
same service, the pilot maneuvered his tug and tow through Cungested
traffic in the river and harbor almost as easily as the taxi driver in a busy
thoroughfare, but without any accidents or collisions as the propulsion
motors can be reversed from full speed ahead to full speed astern without
any danger of stripping gears or otherwise harming the propulsion
machinery.
"Electric drive," said Messrs. Harvey and Thau, "is still in its infancy
and it is to be expected that a longer period of development will still fur-
ther extend its field of application.
"Success of electric drive to date is beyond question and the widespread
interest is conclusive evidence of its indisputable merits and most promis-
ing future.
"The art of electrically propelled ships, while conceived many years ago,
is comparatively new in application and it is, of course, of gratification to
the pioneers that their early predictions are rapidly being fulfilled. After
this system has passed through the lengthy stage of development common
to other types of drive, the expectation of the most enthusiastic will un-
doubtedly be realized."
Aluminum as a Protective Coating for Gratebars
Power. In the March 28 issue of the Zeitschrift des Vereines deutscher
Ingenieure, Robert Hopfeld, director of the Metalisator A. G. of Hamburg,
tells of experiments with gratebars. Bars cast in the ordinary way of gray
iron, and chilled bars of the same shape with a mixture of steel, were used
simultaneously in a furnace in which, owing to the character of the coal,
the bars previously used had burned out rapidly.
After 600 hours of use in the furnace the chilled iron bars, as shown in
Fig. 1, had burned away to such an extent as hardly to be of further use.
The bars of ordinary gray iron were also badly burned, although for
some unapparent reason the wastage in their case was not so uniformly dis-
tributed over the length of the bar.
Although positive conclusions should not be drawn from a single test
in which some accidental condition may have had an important influence, the
evidence, as far as it goes, indicates that the ordinary gray-iron bar is not
more vulnerable than that with the chilled surfaces.
Considering the cause and manner of this rapid deterioration, the author
says that at high temperatures iron, especially wrought iron, is rapidly
oxidized in contact with air. As soon as the layer of oxide thus formed
reaches a sufficient thickness, it peels off and the oxidation continues upon
the newly exposed surface. Cast iron is not so sensitive to this action as
wrought iron, although cast iron oxidizes rapidly at temperatures in excess
of 750 deg C. (1,382 F.).
All coals contain more or less silica, which, combining with the iron
oxide, forms a slag that has a lower melting point than the iron itself. This
slag fastens itself upon the bar, and in consequence of its low melting point
acts as a flux for the as yet unattacked metal. When the spaces between
the bars become obstructed with this slag, the temperature is increased
locally by the consequent diminution of the air flow. The falling of fine
coal through the grate, and its combustion in the ashpit, further aggravates
the condition by heating the incoming air and subjecting the bars to the
heat of a fire below as well as above them.


  p. 1277 (#185)                      #

1925)
1277
Professional Notes
Phosphorus lowers the melting point of the iron. Sulphur in the unused
bar appears as small iron-sulphide crystals having a melting point of 1,210
deg C. (2,210 F.), and in this form does not materially hasten the fusing
of the metal. These crystals, however, in an amount of 0.2 per cent, make
the iron brittle and encourage flaking and the production of cracks and
fissures. For this reason it is desirable that iron that is to sustain high
temperatures should have a low surphur content. Analysis showed, however,
that the sulphur content had increased from 0.09 per cent in the unused t
0.95 per cent in the burnt bars.
From the foregoing it appeared that the life of the bars would be
lengthened if the formation of iron oxide and the increase of the sulphur
content could be prevented. This has been attempted by giving to the bars
a coating of aluminum which hinders, through the formation of aluminum
oxide, the oxidation of the iron and the absorption of sulphur.


FIG. 1-CHILLED BARS AFTER
600 Hours' SERVICE
Fig. 2—METALIZED BARS AFTER
600-HOUR TEST
In applying the process, which consists of spraying the aluminum on in a
molten conditions, the iron should be at a red heat, as the coating applied
to a cold surface is likely to include air, which, by its expansion when the
bar is heated, is likely to impair the integrity of the protective surface and
make the aluminum flake off.
Some of the gray-iron bars were thus treated, about 45 grams of alumi-
num being applied per meter length of bar, and these, simultaneously with
samples of the untreated bars, were subjected to a 600-hour test in the same
furnace. Their appearance at the end of the test is shown in Fig. 2.
Analyses of the sections after this exposure show comparatively imma-
terial changes in the composition of the section, especially as regards the
sulphur content.


  p. 1278 (#186)                      #

1278
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Steam or Oil Engines for Fast Ships?*
The Marine Engineer and Motorship Builder, May, 1925.-It is premature
to talk of the Diesel completely superseding the steam engine. The upper
limit of power of the Diesel engine is much below the upper limit for the
steam engine, so that at present there can be no supersession of machinery
above the Diesel's upper limit of power. High-speed warships of all types
cannot adopt the Diesel engine for this reason. Oil which has made the
Diesel a possibility has much increased the output and the economy of the
steam engine. The advantage of the Diesel over the steam engine is that
the oil has been more efficiently used in the cylinders of the Diesel than in
the furnaces of the boilers which supply the steam for the older type of
machinery, and the steam so produced has not had the same range of tem-
peratures to work in that the oil in the Diesel has had. But developments
are taking place in boilers and steam turbines which promise to remove
some of these differences in economic output. Sir Charles Parsons gave
some figures in a paper read at the World Power Conference in July, 1924,
in which he proposed steam turbines working at 500 pounds per square
inch pressure and 700° F. steam temperature driving propellers, through
reduction gearing, the steam being generated in water-tube boilers fitted with
air preheaters. This system is hereafter referred to as the H.P.T. type. It
is shown that an overall thermal efficiency may be obtained not much in-
ferior to the best results secured by the Diesel. Statesments of this kind
from such a high authority lead to the conclusion that we can either by the
steam or the Diesel engine obtain much more power per ton of fuel carried
and used than can be got in existing steamships.
Before we decide on the relative merits of steam and Diesel engines for
ship propulsion, we have to take into account:
(a) The relative first cost;
(b) The relative cost of Diesel and boiler fuel; and
(c) The relative working costs, including crew and maintenance.
The relative cost of boiler and Diesel oil fuel suitable for ship propul-
sion seems to be a variable quantity. The difference in cost varies from
nothing to twenty per cent in favor of the boiler-fuel oil. There are some
oils of about the same thermal efficiency which can be used in a boiler which
cannot or have not been used in a Diesel engine, and even if they are used
it has been estimated that the cost of the Diesel oil might be nearly twenty
per cent higher without being superseded by the oil suitable for a boiler.
It seems probable that for some time to come the oil fuel for the steam
engine will be cheaper than for the Diesel. The cost of the crew for the
Diesel-engine ship will most probably be less than for the turbine-driven
ship in high-powered machinery, but for powers below 10,000 horsepower
this does not seem to hold. As to the relative cost of maintenance and
repair, it is too early to dogmatize. These costs in the cases of the turbine
and boilers are known, and are not high. The number of moving parts of
a Diesel engine is large, and the liability to wear and damage is not small,
but until the latest types have been run at sea for some time we must wait
for, full knowledge on this subject. It is, therefore, not the Diesel alone
which will make existing steamers obsolete, but also developments in the
steam engine itself are very likely to produce the same results. The gain
in the Diesel over the steam engine is in the smaller consumption of oil per
unit of power, but the cost and weight of the Diesel are much greater than
the turbine installations using high-pressure steam in the way suggested by
Sir Charles Parsons.
* Abstract of Paper read by Sir John Biles, K.C.I.E., LL.D., D.Sc., at the Spring
Meetings of the Sixty-sixth Session of the Institution of Naval Architects, April 1.


  p. 1279 (#187)                      #

1925)
1279
Professional Notes
Take the case of the only Diesel ship of high speed which has been com-
pieted, the Aorangi, and compare its performance with that of a steamship
of about the same dimensions and power. The steamship is all oil-fired with
double-reduction turbines. The following are the leading particulars:
TABLE 1.—COMPARING DIESEL AND STEAM VESSELS OF ABOUT 20,000 Tons
DISPLACEMENT
Diesel (Aorangi) Steam
Dimensions .....
....... 580 ft. X 72 ft. X 546 ft. X 70 ft. X
46 ft. 7 in.
43 ft. 3 in.
Measured
Measured
Sea. Mile. Sea. Mile.
Draught, mean ....
26 ft. 51 in. 24 ft. io in. 25 ft.
Shaft horse-power ................ 12,200 12,400 12,050 13,885
Speed, knots ........ ....... 17.91 18.237 17.2 17.96
Displacement, tons ....
20,740
19,000 19,150
Consumption per shaft horse-power/
hour, in ths...
.......0.395 for main engines
0.036 for auxiliary
— engines
0.431
0.984
Consumption of oil for 3,000 nautical
miles (estimated from sea trial) 393 tons
923 tons
Estimated reserve feed water used
in 3,000 nautical miles ........... 28 tons
350 tons
Total weight of oil and water used
in 3,000 nautical miles .......... 421 tons
1,273 tons
Main gain in speed during voyage
due to reduction in weight of fuel
and oil on board ..... ....0.08 knot
0:23 knot
Equiva lent difference in shaft horse-
power during voyage if vessels run
at same speed .................. 1.4 per cent 4 per cent
Area on five decks due to machinery
openings ....................... about 14,000 sq. ft. 15,500 sq. ft.
Extra length of ship necessary to
give same area of decks exclusive
4.2 ft.
of machinery openings .......
It is claimed for the Diesel engine in passenger ships that more space is
available for passengers than in the steamships. We may judge of this by
observing the relative spaces occupied by machinery openings in the two
cases.
Three different types may now be considered:
(a) Diesel engines.
(b) Steam turbines of existing types of machinery and cylindrical
tubulous boilers.
(c) Steam turbines working at 500 pounds pressure and 700 degrees
temperature from water-tube boilers as proposed by Sir Charles
Parsons, called the H.P.T. type.
The weights of Diesel engines and those of type (b) are very much the
same. The weight of type (c) is from forty to fifty per cent less than (a).
It is generally claimed that the consumption of the Diesel is about 0:4 pound -
per shaft horsepower for the main engines. It is also claimed that for all
purposes in the Aorangi the consumption is 0.5 pound, the difference being
due to the auxiliary purposes for which power and steam are used in the


  p. 1280 (#188)                      #

1280
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
TABLE II.-COMPARATIVE WEIGHTS OF DIFFERENT TYPES OF PROPELLING MACHINERY FOR DIFFERENT LENGTHS
OF VOYAGE
Type
(a)
(b)
Steam
(c) (a)
| H.P.T. | Diesel
(b)
Steam
f(c) (a)
(c)
H.P.T. | Diesel | H.P.T.
(c)
Diesel
H.P.T.
20
20
0:7
0.5
27,000
*3.230
4,450
Sea speed, knots.....
Fuel per shaft horsepower ....
Shaft horsepower ...
Distance in nautical miles...
Weight of machinery..
Weight of feed water..
Weight of fuel......
Weight of machinery, fuel and water. . ]
Weight of half fuel and water...
Weight less half fuel and water. ......
Gain over Diesel in weight of machin-
ery, fuel and water........
Gain over Diesel less half fuel and water
20
0.5
27,000
6,460
4,450
109
1,947
6,506
1,028
5,478
20
1:0
28,000
6,460
4,250
1,507
4,037
9,794
2,772
7,022
3,288
loss
1,544
loss
55
27,000
6.460
2,700
727
2,725
6,152
1,726
4,426
354
20
1:0
28,000
3.230
4,250
754
2,018
7,022
1,386
5,636
1,544
loss
672
loss
20
0:7
27,000
3,230
2,700
364
1,362
4,426
863
3,563
1,052
17
0.5
13,500
3,230
2,650
32
572
3,254
302
2,952
17
0:7
13,500
3,230
1,300
214
802
2,316
508
1,808
938
18 .
0.7
16,900
3,230
1,600
253
948
2,801
600
2,201
973
5,478
514
4,964
453
1,052
1,401
1,144
751
Note.-H.P.T.=High-pressure turbine.


  p. 1281 (#189)                      #

1925)
1281
Professional Notes
ship. The amount of steam for auxiliary purposes naturally varies with the
kind of auxiliary machinery and purposes to which fuel is applied. In a
20,000-ton, 20-knot turbine, passenger ship the amount of water evaporated
per pound of oil fuel was measured with the boilers at full power. An esti-
mate of the fuel used for driving the auxiliaries in this ship is 0.15 pound
per oil per hour per shaft horsepower of main engines, and an estimate of
the fuel for auxiliaries in a 20,000-ton Diesel ship of 20 knots gives 0.107
pound per shaft horsepower per hour as the consumption. In the case of
the steamship, steam is used only for feed, air, general service, and circulat-
ing pumps for main and auxiliary condensers, for cooking, evaporator,
ship's heating, brine warming, hot salt- and fresh-water calorifiers. If
0-45 pound is used for Aorangi for all purposes, it seems as if either the
shaft horsepower at which the ship is running has been overestimated, or
that her auxiliaries are very much more efficient than in other ships. In
comparing the Diesel (a) with (b) and (c), the following figures have
been used for auxiliaries :
(a) 0:1
(b) 0.15
(c) 0:1
We may take the consumptions for main machinery as follows:
(a) 0:4
(b) 0.9
(c) 0:6
With sea water at 60 degrees and vacuum 28 inches, the totals for all pur-
poses will be:
(a) 0:5
(b) 1.05
(c) 0.7
Some authorities have determined the amount of make-up feed required
in cylindrical boilers in merchant ships to be three and a half tons per 1,000
horsepower per day. From observations in some recent passenger ships
this amount of water is found to be as much as four tons, no evaporators
being used. In Diesel ships the amount is small and may be taken at about
0.3 ton per 1,000 horsepower per day. This amount will be increased if
fresh water is used in circulation for cooling parts of the engine. This
large difference between the steam and Diesel engines can be reduced by the
use of evaporators. In the steam system (c) it is assumed that two tons per
1,000 horsepower per day will be sufficient, together with evaporators
capable of giving another two tons if required.
The weight of fuel and feed water will vary with the distance between
fuelling ports. Table II gives the totals for these items for different types
of machinery, and for two distances, 6,460 miles and 3,230 miles. It will be
seen that for the longer distance the Diesel and the high-pressure turbine
(or H.P.T.) type are tending toward the same total weight, while the pres-
ent turbine type is about 50 per cent more, the ratios being 1, 1.5, and 0.94.
For the shorter distance the ratio is 1, 1.28, and o-81 for the (a), (b) and
(c) types, respectively. The mean displacement on the voyage will be
affected by the consumption of fuel, and so forth, to the extent shown in
Table II. Table III gives estimates for the different types of machinery
in the same various types of ships, and for various distances run per annum.
The costs of machinery are for the whole installation of boilers, engines,
and auxiliaries as completed in the ships. In the case of 20-knot vessels the
Diesel type of engine costs £13,000 per year more to run than the steam,
while at 17 knots the cost per annum of the Diesel is £7,000 more than that
for the steam. But the cost of running the steam vessel at 18 knots is only
£8,000 per year more than the Diesel at 17 knots. Some investigations have
been made for higher powers which may be of interest. In the case of the
20-knot vessel with the (c) type of machinery, it will be seen that a gain
of 1,052 tons of weight is available in the 3,230-mile voyage. Transforming
this weight into machinery fuel and make-up feed, it is possible to increase
the shaft horsepower to 40,000 and the sea speed to 22 knots. The weight


  p. 1282 (#190)                      #

1282
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
TABLE III.-ANNUAL COSTS FOR VOYAGE OF 120,000 MILES
(a)
Diesel
(6)
Steam
(a)
Diesel
(c)
(6)
H.P.T.
· H.P.T.
H.P.T.
27,000
£460,000
£85, 100
28,000
£380,000
£70,390
27,000
£333,000
£61,605
13,500
£240,000
£44,400
13,500
£175,000
£32,380
16,900
£210,000
£38,850
Shaft horse power....
Cost of machinery..
Interest, depreciation, insurance, and maintenance
per year. ................
Distance steamed per year, miles...
Fuel burnt per year, tons.........
Cost of fuel per year. .........
Lubricating oil per year, tons......
Lubricating oil-cost, per year. .....
Feed water for boilers per year, tons.....
Cost of feed water for boilers per year
Engine-room wages per year..
120,000
36,160
£144,640
337 · 35
£11,554
2,025
£160
£10,000
120,000
75,000
£243,750
7.03
£241
28,000
£2,217
£12,000
80,000
19,853
£64,522
2.66
120,000
50,625
£164,531
6.78
£232
13,500
£1,068
£11,000
80,000
14,180
£56,720
132 · 3
£4,531
80,000
23,472
£72, 287
3 · 14
£108
6,259
£495
£9,000
£71
794
£63
£6,600
5,294
£419
£8,000
Total running expenses. ...
Charges........
£166,354
85,100
£258,208 | £176,831
70,390 61,605
£67,914
44,400
£73,012
32,380
£81,890
38,850
Total...
£251,454 |
£328,598 | £238,436
| £112,314 | £105,392 | £120,740


  p. 1283 (#191)                      #

1925]
1283
Professional Notes
of turbine machinery per shaft horsepower tends to decrease with increase
of power. An estimate of an installation of such machinery for 55,000
horsepower in a 24-knot ship shows that the weight is about 3,600 tons,
which is one third more than that in a 20-knot ship, while the power is more
than double. It is not easy to see how a Diesel installation of this power
could be applied to a ship at the present time, and its weight would prob-
ably be about 8,000 tons. It is, however, in the region of lower powers than
those dealt with that the interest of the large majority of shipowners is
most centered. It cannot be said that the turbine has displaced the recipro-
cating engine in this region. The reduction in weight of the (c) installa-
tion is due in part to the use of high-efficiency water-tube boilers and oil
fuel, which require higher skill in their handling than the ordinary mer-
chant-ship boiler, coal-fired. But a similar consideration has to be kept in
view in the adoption of the Diesel engine in the ordinary type of tramp
steamers. Both types involve the training of more highly skilled engine-
room staffs, which time only can create.
In the case of cross-Channel steamers of high speed the turbine has
completely displaced the reciprocating engine. In this case the weight and
first cost of the installation are the dominating considerations, for the dis-
tances run are short and the amount of fuel carried is comparatively much
smaller than in vessels trading overseas. It is of interest to examine such
a case to see if steam is likely to be displaced by the Diesel engine. The
case of an intallation for a 20-knot vessel of 5,200 horsepower has been
chosen.
The following are comparative figures for twin-screw vessel :
(c)
Item
Diesel
(6)
Present
Turbine
Arrangement
With H.P.
Turbine
Scheme
Power........
Oil consumption, all purposes..!
5,200 s.h.p.
1:15 tons
5,200 s.h.p.
2.09 tons
per hour
5,200 s.h.p.
1.67 tons
per hour
per hour
Oil per shaft horsepower per
hour, all purposes...
Weight of machinery.........
Revolutions per minute......
Cost........................
0.72 lb.
510 tons
0.5 lb.
740 tons
260
£100,000
0.9 lb.
570 tons
260
£62,000
260
£65,000
The question of the practicability of producing reliable machinery of the
(c) type is one for the marine engineer.
Two difficulties will suggest themselves—firstly, that of condenser tubes,
and secondly, that of steam joints. Sir Charles Parsons' proposals are
made by a serious engineer who is ready to carry them out. Other firms
have been consulted who, in this respect, are free from the suspicion of
desiring favor or their own progeny, and they are quite ready to guarantee
results equal to those promised by Sir Charles Parsons, so that there is
solid foundation for belief in the statement of steam efficiency upon which
the comparison with the Diesel engines is based. Further, one firm has
offered equally favorable results in thermal efficiency, first cost, and weight
of installation at a pressure of 265 pounds with an installation in which the
greater efficiency in the method of producing the steam is expected to make
up for the loss of efficiency due to the use of the steam of lower pressure.


  p. 1284 (#192)                      #

1284
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
TABLE IV.-PARTICULARS OF DIESEL ENGINES
Diesel Machinery
Cylinders in Each Engine | Revs.
per
Type of Engine No. Diameter Stroke Min.
B.H.P.
Weight/
B.H.P.
Complete
Installation
Consumption
B.H.P.
Cost per
B.H.P.
Vessel
Builder
In.
In.
22
8
36
120
2,500
T.s. Dolius........... Scott ......... Scott-Still
two-cycle
T.s. Scottish Borderer ... Denny........ Sulzer two-
cycle.....
23.6
141:8
90
2,071
6
125
1,267
38;
38)
125
1,267
S.s. Pinson ........... Beardmore.... bearamote-
... Beardmore.... Beardmore-Tosi
S.s. Pizarro... Beardmore. ... Beardmore-Tosil
T.s. Sycamore.... Richardsons, Beardmore-Tosi
Westgarth..
T.s. Tramore.... Richardsons, Beardmore-Tosi
Westgarth..
T.s. Silurian........... Beardmore.... Beardmore-Tosi
Lb.
10:36 lb./B.H.P./hr.
611
main engines
0.371 lb./B.H./hr. Not given.
all purposes
400 10: 435 lb. includes air, Not given.
main engines scavenge and other
only pumps driven off main
engines
0:42 lb./B.H.P./hr. £31 (1921).
main engines only 7
0:42 lb./B.H.P./hr.
main engines only
0.42 lb./B.H.P./hr.
main engines only
0.42 lb./B.H.P./hr.
main engines only
0.42 lb./B.H.P./hr. £21 10s.
main engines only
(1924).
10.431 lb./B.H.Þ./hr.
400
main engines
0.45 lb./B.H.P./hr.
all purposes
126
6
6
6
381
2,700
2,700
2,700
126
126
Q.s. Aorangi ......... Fairfield....... Fairfield-Sulzer
6
27}
123
12,200
Lb.
452
35. 43
16 1
135
0:379
19.68
19.68
24:8
£31 6s.
£23 18.
35. 43
150
399
S.s. Frem. ............Burmeister
& Wain
T.s. Chastine Maersk... Burmeister
& Wain..
T.s. Tourcoing........ Burmeister
& Wain..
S.s. Centaur (as given Scott....
by Burmeister &
Wain)....
0.376
Burmeister
& Wain
Burmeister
& Wain
Burmeister
& Wain
Burmeister
& Wain
four-cycle
Taken at ?
I.H.P.
I.H.P. 1.15
B.H.P. 8625
I.H.P. 2,300
B.H.P. 1,725
I.H.P. 5,400
B.H.P. 4,050
I.H.P. 2.000
| B.H.P. 1,500
43:7
120
393
0: 377
£18.
24.8
|
54 • 18
110
0° 404
£30.


  p. 1285 (#193)                      #

1925)
1285
Professional Notes
In this installation coal can be used. Yarrow and Company have built
boilers of 400 pounds pressure and 700 degries of superheat, for use in elec-
trical power stations, and they have designed a Yarrow boiler of 500 pounds
pressure and about 700 degrees of superheat for marine engines. James
Howden and Company have proposed and are building a boiler of the
cylindrical and water-tube type combined, which will have 315 pounds
pressure and 700 degrees temperature, and with which they expect to get
very high efficiency. Both these boilers can be arranged to use oil or coal
as fuel
In overseas high-speed vessels the weight is only in favor of the Diesel
for a length of voyage considerably above 6,000 miles, and even in such
cases the mean displacement on the voyage may be three per cent or more in
favor of the steam vessel. For voyages of 3,000 miles there is a gain of over
1,000 tons in weight to be carried, and a gain of five per cent in the mean
displacement on voyage in the steam vessel. In cross-channel vessels the
weight and cost make the Diesel prohibitive compared with the turbine. In
all these cases steam is superior to the Diesel in commercial efficiency.
The employment in marine installations of three turbines in series con-
nected by gearing to the propeller shaft is especialiy appropriate to these
high-pressure schemes, since it enables the high-pressure part of the expan-
sion to be effected in a turbine of small diameter, running at the speed of
revolution most conducive to efficiency. Thus it it proposed to employ an
arrangement giving 27,000 s.h.D. on two shafts. The turbines are coupled
to the shaít through double-reduction gearing, the high pressure at 4,000
revolutions and the intermediate pressure at 2,700 revolutions driving one
primary gear and developing, respectively, twenty per cent and thirty per
cent of the total power. The remaining fifty per cent is developed in the
low-pressure turbine, which runs at 300 revolutions and drives the other
primary gear. The main wheel is then symmetrically driven by two sec-
ondary pinions of equal power and speed, coupled one to each primary wheel.
The heat of the auxiliary exhaust steam is utilized to heat the feed water
to a temperature of 200° F. Further feed heating can be effected by bleed-
ing steam from the turbine, say, at a pressure of 120 pounds per square inch,
to raise the feed temperature to about 310° F. The whole of the heat of the
flue gases is available for pre-heating the furnace air, thus raising the
efficiency of the boiler. To remove the objection that has sometimes been
raised to the use of water-tube boilers for marine work, having regard to
the possibility of leaky condenser tubes admitting salt to the feed system,
it is proposed to subdivide the condensers, fitting two or more condensers
to each turbine exhaust, of a large total capacity, with means to isolate
each condenser, both on the steam and water side, so that on any indication
of leakage of salt it may be effectively dealt with without appreciably re-
ducing the speed of the ship. Suitable instruments would be fitted for the
detection of salinity of the condensate of each condenser. With a boiler
pressure of 500 pounds superheat to a total temperature of 700° F., and a
condenser vacuum of 29 inches Hg. (barometer, 30 inches), it is estimated
that the steam consumption of the turbines of such an installation will not
exceed 6.9 pounds per s.h.p. hour.
Stern Tube Friction Eliminated by Oil
The Nautical Gazette, 23 May, 1925.---Regarding the question as to the
reduction of friction in the stern tubes when oil is used instead of water,
Fergus Cameron, consulting engineer, of Goole, has had an experience with
the steamer Sparta, owned by the Bennett Steamship Company, Ltd., which
gives support to the contention that the lubrication of this bearing does
actually reduce the friction, with a consequent economy of fuel or an in-


  p. 1286 (#194)                      #

1286
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
crease in revolutions. The vessel, which was built in 1900, is fitted with
inverted, direct-acting, triple-expansion engines. She has a plain tail shaft
of eight and three-quarters inches diameter, running in a cast iron bush,
the bottom half of which is lined with white metal, at a speed of ninety-
five revolutions, equal to a peripheral speed of 218 feet per minute. She
is fitted with a Vickers stern tube appliance and lubricated with Vickers
underwater oil.
The vessel was recently docked at Goole, when the tail shaft was drawn
in for inspection, everything being found in excellent condition after
eighteen months' running in and out of the sandy water of the Humber.
On the day on which the shaft was uncoupled there was a strong wind
blowing, with occasional gusts attaining to the speed of a small gale. When
the last coupling bolt had been removed it as found necessary to send a man
into the drydock to hold the propeller still, as it was found impossible to
put in the stops between the tail and shaft coupling and the stern tube
flange, owing to the shaft and the propeller revolving slowly, due to the
action of the wind on the blades.
AVIATION
Detroit Takes Off
Aviation, 27 April, 1925.—With a sudden rush, Detroit has made a con-
certed effort to make itself truly the aeronautical center of the country.
While others have been thinking of the coming dawn of aviation, the home
of the motor car has seized the advantage of position and is planning a com-
prehensive development of all phases of aviation.
FORD
With the public announcement by Edsel Ford of the establishment of a
Ford Airline from Detroit to Chicago the public received its first news
of the interest of the Ford Company in air transportation development.
While foreign aeronautical visitors have tried to interest the Fords in
their enterprises and there has been much inspired publicity of these efforts,
until last week no definite plans were announced. Even now the extent of
the development is problematical. Two Stout Metal monoplanes have been
purchased and are flying from the Ford Airport at Dearborn to Chicago on
a schedule that will be made daily as soon as equipment permits. The Ford
Airport, with its mooring mast, its airplane factory and its airship hangar,
will be the most complete in the country, but the further announcement that
the Ford Company intends to manufacture small and inexpensive planes
and a light commercial engine arouses the greatest enthusiasm in aero-
nautical circles, for when the vast resources of the great Ford organization
are centered on a project, it can be considered to be the result of a very
careful investigation.
COFFIN
The second, and in some ways a more important, Detroit plan is the
formation, there, of a group of capitalists headed by Howard Coffin to
promote an operating air transport company. This, project has already
secured the cooperation of some of the best known men in the country.
Until an official announcement of the personnel of the company is made it
will not be helpful to list the names of those that have been rumored
as participating in the underwriting. It can be said, however, that the
plans of the promoters do not include any sale of stock to the public.
Unofficially, it is reported that the company intends to start an experimental
air line between New York and Chicago using the Air Mail route for night
flying. As the Kelly Bill now permits the Post Office Department to make
contracts with private operators of airlines for the transportation of mail,


  p. 1287 (#195)                      #

1925]
1287
Professional Notes
the taking over of the night flying of the eastern section of the Air Mail
may be one of the first undertakings of the proposed company when it is
under way. The tentative plans call for extensions of the operations of the
air lines, as far east as Boston, to the south as far as Atlanta and New Or-
leans, and west to Los Angeles and Seattle. The plans call for the use of
airplanes and airships when either may be found to be advantageous. C. M.
Keys, president of the Curtiss Aeroplane and Motor Corporation, is asso-
ciated with Mr. Coffin in the organization of the company, the formal plans
of which will shortly be made public.
As has been announced, the Buhl interests in Detroit have formed a
company—The Buhl-Verville Aircraft Corporation—to manufacture air-
planes designed by Alfred Verville. The combination of manufacturing
experience and engineering skill will make this company one from which
much may be expected.
PACKARD.
Then, of course, the Packard Company has carried on an extensive
engineering development with aeronautical engines. The large Packard
engines have recently come to be regarded as one of the standard engines
for the Air Service. Under the guidance of Colonel J. G. Vincent, the
vice president in charge of engineering, the Packard Company has con-
ducted a progressive development program in aeronautical engines that is
beginning to play an important part in the engine field.
Of the Stout and Upson engineering progress much has been known.
Since his designing of the Bat, Mr. Stout has been engaged in the pro-
duction of metal airplanes and his monoplane has been praised by practically
everyone who has studied the ship. Its adoption by the Fords for their
air line is a complete endorsement of its utility as an economical air
transport. Ralph Upson has been making the preliminary engineering study
of a metal airship, and methods of fabrications. While actual building has
not been started the design and fundamental idea has received the most
interested consideration from all parts of the world.
As will be seen, Detroit is taking the aircraft situation with the most
comprehensive seriousness. It has the money, it has the manufacturing
facilities and skill, but what is even more important, it is proceeding with
a large and comprehensive plan to develop aviation all along the line.
The "Los Angeles" a Fine Job
The Scientific American, June, 1925.–False propaganda and misleading
half truths are the bane of modern life. Their malevolence would begin
and end with themselves were it not for the wide publicity they too often
obtain in the daily press and the magazine. Because of the un-American
influences that have been poisoning the country during the last twenty-five
years, it has come about that, if they are to be attractive, the stage must
be salacious and journalism enriched with sensation and scandal.
It has been publicly stated that the metal of the Los Angeles airship is
disintegrating and that this catastrophe is the result of deliberate German
duplicity. That is the latest lie, and we wish it here and now to be under-
stood that it has been deliberately cut out of whole cloth. The framework
of the Los Angeles is not disintegrating, and the ship itself, as the editor
can testify after climbing over every accessible part of it, is a magnificent
job, both in the intelligence of the design and the characteristic thorough-
ness of the workmanship.
A grain of truth in these rumors is to be found in the fact that there
has been a certain amount of corrosion in the keel of the Los Angeles, which
has not been due to any fault in the aluminum alloy of which the frame is
built, but to some chemicals which were accidentally spilt upon it during the


  p. 1288 (#196)                      #

1288
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
operation of the ship. Within the hull is carried a large number of bags of
water which are discharged when it is necessary to lighten the ship. With a
view to preventing freezing at high altitudes, a certain amount of calcium
chloride is mixed with the water, and in pouring the liquid into the bags,
some of it spilled over and ran down into the keel. The calcium chloride
set up a surface corrosion which, in the small latices of which the main
triangular members are built up, became sufficiently serious to necessitate
their removal. This has now been done and the ship is today in first-class
condition. Greater care in filling the bags with anti-freezing mixture, or
better yet, the substitution of wood alcohol or some other suitable substance,
would absolutely remove any similar risk for the future.
As to the suggestion that the Germans had deliberately made up an
alloy which was certain to disintegrate in the course of time and so wreck
the ship, the idea is preposterous. The Zeppelin company who built the
Los Angeles have already become affiliated with a powerful Akron concern,
and the only field for the future building by them of airships lies in this
country. Consequently, there is every inducement for them to make the
Los Angeles a fine exhibit of their skill in design and in construction. In
other words, she is their show ship for America. Our examination of the
vessel confirms the expectation of her excellence. Particularly noticeable is
the construction of the bow to withstand those heavy lateral stresses which
in a gale of wind are liable to tear the bow out of the ship, as happened in
the Shenandoah when her cap was torn loose, and in R-33. A heavy side
gust sets up tension on the lee side and heavy compression on the windward
side of the ship and the aluminum alloy is relatively weaker in compression
than in tension. Hence, a series of straight and stiff rectangular posts
extend from the nose cap to the first circular ring, and these are strengthened
in such a way that they should be proof against the heaviest stresses to
which they can be exposed.
The New Packard Aircraft Engines
Aviation, 11 May, 1925.—The new Packard aircraft engines are built in
two sizes, the model 1500 rated at 500 b.h.p., and the model 2500 rated at
800 b.h.p. The engines are of almost identical design except in size and
were developed concurrently to fill the demand for the entire range of
water cooled engines as it exists today. These engines are suitable for
merson Mnan
Saman
FIG. I
power demands ranging from about 350 b.h.p. to well over 800 b.h.p., gearing
being furnished when required to bring the propeller speed down to the
point of maximum efficiency.
Externally, the engines present an exceptionally clean appearance and are
remarkably compact for their power output as shown by the superimposed
views of the model 1500 and the Liberty engines in Fig. 1. From these


  p. 1289 (#197)                      #

1925)
1289
Professional Notes
diagrams it will be noted that the new small Packard engine is considerably
lighter and more compact than the Liberty but develops far more power.
The larger model 2500 engine is compared in respect to power output and
weight with its predecessor, the model 2025 engine, which powered the
Verville-Packard plane, winner of the first Pulitzer race.
The compact construction, light weight and high power output of these
new engines have been brought about by some rather basic advances in
aircraft engine design resulting from the long experience of the Packard
Motor Car Company in designing and building airplane engines in quantities.
In laying down the new designs the following fundamental principles were
established.
(1) A very high degree of reliability must be attained.
(2) Greatly reduced weight and overall dimensions as compared with
previous designs are highly desirable.
(3) The design must be simple, capable of production in large quantities
and accessible for maintenance in the field.
A comprehensive survey was first made of the fundamental factors in
the design which would be most affected in carrying out these principles.
It was found that the design of the crankshaft bearings would form the
foundation of this research work as the length of the bearings would de-
termine the length of the engine to a large extent. Accordingly, a series
of bearing tests were run over a period of several months in order to
ascertain the ideal combination of material, loads and sizes. As a result of
this work it was found that if the bearings were made sufficiently rigid
and a rapid circulation of oil was maintained through the bearings, in order
to provide lubrication and carry away the heat generated, it would be pos-
sible to obtain satisfactory results with bearings far narrower than had
hitherto been thought advisable.
For example, it was found out in endurance tests of these engines later
that a bearing load factor as high as 35,000 pounds per square inch feet
per second yielded even better results from a standpoint of bearing life than
previous aircraft engine bearings loaded only half as much but which were
not as rigidly supported or as well lubricated.
While the compact overall dimensions of the new engines are basically
determined by the new developments in bearing design, a contributory factor
is the cylinder construction of these engines. The cylinders are individual
and are of all steel construction, the six cylinders of a bank being formed
into a block by means of an aluminum casting termed the valve housing
to which the cylinders are bolted. The cylinder is composed of a drawn
steel sleeve welded to a forged combustion chamber head which is machined
all over and fitted with a head plate and sheet metal water jacket welded
in place. Each cylinder is provided with four valves and short valve ports
are formed integral with the cylinder. The valve ports are accurately hollow
milled on their outer surfaces and the head plate is bored so as to form a
pressed fit over the vale ports, the plate seating on shoulders so as to
provide about three eighths of an inch water space over the top of the com-
bustion chamber.
The cylinder head is provided with five bosses into which long studs are
screwed, thus supporting the valve housing. The spark plug bosses are
formed integral with the combustion chamber. The weight of the complete
model 1500 cylinder is nine and five-tenths pounds and this cylinder develops
nearly fifty h.p. The weight of the complete model 2500 cylinder is fifteen
and two-tenths pounds and this cylinder develops nearly seventy h.p. It will
be noted that the cylinder hold-down flange is located some distance from
the end of the cylinder barrel which permits of a very compact construction
as the ends of the barrels of the two banks are practically allowed to touch
inside the crankcase, the additional height of the crankcase due to this


  p. 1290 (#198)                      #

1 290
| July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
construction naturally increasing its rigidity. Incidentally, it is the fact
that the cylinder barrels project inside the crankcase which permits of these
engines being run successfully in an inverted position, an arrangement now
favored by many airplane designers.
Water is led into the individual cylinders from a manifold connected to
short pipes welded to the jacket at the lower end and the water delivery
from the cylinder is through a series of holes drilled in the top plate and
arranged radially around the exhaust ports so as to insure against local
steam pockets over the exhaust valve seats. A single copper-asbestos
gasket is used between the individual cylinders and the valve housing ; this
gasket is, of course, not subjected to gas pressures as with the conventional
automobile detachable head gasket but merely serves as a water seal and to
prevent leaks between the inlet and exhaust passages.
The valve housing is an aluminum casting machined on all surfaces and
used interchangeably on the right and left hand banks. The housing per-
forms the following functions:
(1) Distributes the mixture to the six cylinders from the two carburetor
cross header manifold connections.
(2) Forms the exhaust passages, each two adjacent cylinders having
their two pairs of exhaust ports siamesed into a single exhaust outlet.
(3) Collects the water circulated through each cylinder jacket and
delivers same through a single outlet at the front of the engine.
(4) Supports the camshaft bearing pedestals and valve stem guides.
Fig. 4 shows diagrammatically the layout of the intake, exhaust and
water passages in the valve housing and the unique arrangement of four
valves feeding from a common port will be noted. The advantages of this
arrangement are that large and free passages are permitted and the casting
is simplified due to the absence of intermediate walls.
A single camshaft is supported in seven cast duralumin bearings bolted to
the top of the valve housing and this camshaft is provided with twelve cams,
each cam operating a pair of valves through
the medium of a cam follower working in
a vertical guide formed integral with the
camshaft bearings. These cam followers
are prevented from turning by means of a
flat milled surface on the side of the cam-
shaft bearing. The cam followers are posi-
tively lubricated from the adjacent camshaft
bearing and the exhaust cam followers are
also utilized as pumps to force oil through
the exhaust valves for cooling purposes.
FIG. 5
This feature of the design is shown dia-
grammatically in Fig. 5 and the method of
circulating the oil through the valves is described as follows:
The camshaft is hollow and supplied with oil under pressure through a
continuous metering groove in the rear bearing. In the camshaft journal
next to each exhaust cam a hole is drilled opposite to the nose of the
corresponding exhaust cam and this hole registers with a vertical passage in
the camshaft bearing pedestal when the cam is at its highest point and the
exhaust valves consequently closed. The oil flows through this passage to
the bottom of the cam follower guide which forms a closed end cylinder and
the space underneath the cam follower is thus filled with oil. The camshaft
in revolving cuts off communication with this passage and when the cam
follower is depressed by the cam the oil can only escape by being forced
through the hollow cam follower stem and the horizontal drilled passages
leading out through the drilled tappets into the exhaust valve stems. The
latter are drilled out their entire length, the lower end of the hole in the


  p. 1291 (#199)                      #

1925)
1291
Professional Notes
valve head being closed by a screwed-in plug. A small steel tube is welded
to this plug and is centered in a counterbore at the upper end of the valve
stem. The oil is forced down through the tube, out at the bottom through
horizontal holes and thus cools the head of the valve. The oil is then dis-
charged through the annular space between the tube and inner wall of the
valve stem and out into the valve housing through horizontal holes drilled
through the upper end of the valve stem just below the counterbore. With
this system a fixed quantity of oil is pumped through each exhaust valve
each time it is opened and thus a very positive means of cooling is pro-
vided. As a result the exhaust valves operate as a very low temperature
and the valve seat is preserved in excellent operating condition over ex-
tensive periods.
Another feature worth mentioning in the valve gear is the valve spring
construction. Instead of the conventional aircraft arrangement of double
concentric valve springs a series of small diameter piano wire springs is
arranged in planetary fashion around the valve stem guide. In the model
1500 engine there are seven of these springs to each valve, and in the model
2500 engine there are ten springs to each valve. The individual valve
springs are located over tubular guides welded to a lower fixed washer and
the upper ends of the springs engage in an annular groove formed in the
movable spring washer.
This valve spring construction has been used for several years with per-
ject results on Packard marine racing engines which had heretofore given
considerable trouble with valve spring breakage at extremely high speeds.
The reason for this preferred construction is not due, as might be thought,
to the extra factor of safety resulting from the use of a multiplicity of
springs, but is due to the fact that in the small diameter springs the
natural period of vibration is very much higher than in the conventional
type of valve spring so that the destructive "dancing" of the valve springs
is avoided with the small diameter springs.
A very light sheet aluminum cover is fastened to the valve housing and
prevents external leakage of oil, this cover making a taper fit over the
ignition distributor drive housings located at the center of the engine and
described later. Oil from the valve housing is returned to the crankcase
through liberal drains placed at both ends of the engine and provided with
oil traps to prevent crankcase vapors accumulating in the valve gear
compartment.
The crankcases on both engines are of the conventional box section type,
the main bearings being supported in the seven transverse webs of the
crankcase upper half. The crankcase finish surface, to which the oil pan
is bolted, is brought down two and one-half inches and two and three-
fourths inches on the models 1500 and 2500 engine respectively below the
centerline of the crankshaft, the object being firstly, to add rigidity to the
crankcase structure, secondly, to provide "ways" into which the main bearing
caps are fitted, and thirdly, to render the oil pan attaching screws and nuts
more accessible.
The bearing caps are duralumin forgins except in the case of the front
and rear caps which are cast of a special heat treated aluminum alloy. The
main bearings are of babbitted steel-backed construction and are doweled
to both the bearing caps and the crankcase upper half. The main bearings
are provided with force feed lubrication, oil being delivered through a
horizontal manifold pressed in the crankcase upper half and distributing
through vertical tubes leading to each bearing pressed in the crankcase
transverse walls.
The oil pan or crankcase lower half serves as a mounting for the com-
bined water and oil pump unit and is provided with the scavenging oil line
leading to the front end and serving to keep the crankcase scavenged on a


  p. 1292 (#200)                      #

1292
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
glide. The oil pan can be removed from the engine at any time without
disturbing the engine bearings.
The crankshafts in both engines follow customary aircraft engine prac-
tice and are noteworthy for their rigidity, the main journals of the two
engines measuring three inches and three and one-half inches in diameter
respectively, and the crankpins are two and one-half inches and three and
one-fourth inches in diameter respectively.
Both main journals and crankpins are bored out with large holes and the
crank pins are plugged to provide an oil reservoir for leading oil to the
crankpin journals. These reservoirs receive oil from the adjacent main
bearings by means of steel tubes pressed into the crankshaft at an angle
and lining up with the main bearing metering grooves at one end and the
crankpin bore at the other. The main bearing metering grooves are located
entirely in the upper half of the main bearings and extending the whole
180 degrees around their circumference.
The connecting rods of the model 1500 engine are of the forked and
plain type fitted with Sumet bronze bearings, and the connecting rods of
the model 2500 engine are of the articulated type fitted with babbitt bearings
applied directly to the big end of the rod. The piston pin bushings in the
connecting rods of both engines are of phosphor bronze and the same
material is used in the link pin bushings of the larger engine. The link pins
of the model 2500 engine are retained in place by a tapered draw bolt passing
through a boss on the master rod.
The pistons of both engines are aluminum castings of the permanent
mold type and are of the slipper type. They are noteworthy for being
extremely short and comparatively light. The model 1500 piston is five
and three-eighths inches in diameter, 3 11/32 inches long and weighs
2.94 pounds for the bare piston. The model 2500 piston is six and three-
eighths inches in diameter, three and fifteen sixteenths inches long and
weighs 4.47 pounds for the bare piston. The lengths of these new
pistons were established after a series of tests were made in which the
length of the skirt was gradually diminished.
The timing gear and accessory drive layout is worthy of note firstly,
for its simplicity, there being the minimum number of gears employed,
secondly, for the integral construction of shaft and gear wherever per-
missible, and thirdly, for the use of pressure lubricated chilled aluminum
plain bearings throughout, these three features combining to save con-
siderable weight while preserving dependability to the utmost extent.
The simplicity of drives was accomplished by grouping the accessories in
a manner which effected important additional weight savings. All fuel,
oil and water pumps were combined into a single unit which is used inter-
changeably on both the model 1500 and 2500 engines. This unit is driven
through an Oldham coupling from a short shaft journaled in the rear bearing
cap. This shaft carries an integral bevel gear at its upper end which meshes
with a bevel gear mounted on an extension of the crankshaft.
The rear end view of the model 2500 engine brings out the simplicity
of the accessory drive layout as compared with previous types of aircraft
engines, and the absence of engine accessories projecting to the rear of the
engine will be appreciated by those having had maintenance experience with
aircraft engines which have been installed in a crowded position against
the firewall or front bulkhead of a plane.
The pump unit contains three spur gears which are housed-in to form
the two oil scavenging pumps and these gears in turn each drive another unit,
the first driving the water pump, the second the fuel pump and the third the
oil pressure pump. The whole pump unit is quite compact and weighs only
sixteen pounds, including in its assembly the oil strainer and oil pressure
relief valve.


  p. 1293 (#201)                      #

1925]
1293
Professional Notes
The camshaft center drive shaft is also formed with its gears integral
and is continued through the top of the crankcase to drive the special
magneto by means of a laminated spring coupling. This magneto is based
on a principle invented by Packard engineers and developed by the Splitdorf
Company and may be briefly described as a single mechanical instrument
with all electrical parts duplicated and independent throughout. That is to
say, there are only one set of magnets, one set of pole pieces, one rotor, one
driving shaft, one coupling, one cam and one set of rotor bearings.
On the other hand, there are two primary and secondary coils, two con-
densers, two interrupter arms, and two sets of contacts as well as double
external binding posts leading to the two separate distributors, either one
of which will fire all twelve cylinders and each having its separate drive
from one of the camshafts. The magneto employs but one magnetic
circuit and the two electrical circuits are independent of one another
throughout. The induction effect between the two primary windings is
substantially eliminated through the use of an impedance coil in the switch
to ground circuit. This instrument differs radically from the two-spark
magneto used formerly to a considerable extent. In the older type it was
customary to utilize both ends of the secondary winding, the high tension
circuit being to one spark plug to ground and from ground back through
the other spark plug. In this type of magneto practically any electrical
failure resulted in both sets of sparks being simultaneously affected whereas
in the new magneto the two electrical systems are completely isolated from
one another and should one system fail it will not appreciably affect the
operation of the other.
Timing of both the magneto and distributors has been facilitated in these
new engines by specially developed mountings, the magneto being furnished
with a slotted flange at the driving end, accurate timing being accomplished
by swinging the magneto bodily on this mounting, two five-sixteenths inch
nuts serving to lock the magneto in its desired position. Similarly, the
distributors can be bodily rotated by loosening a clamp bolt, the final adjust-
ment being made with the assistance of an inspection opening located over
No. I left cylinder terminal.
A recently developed advantage in connection with this ignition system
lies in the fact that a generator can be substituted for the magneto and by
providing a suitable contact breaker on the end of the generator shaft, it is
possible to secure battery ignition to replace the magneto ignition where
desirable without any changes to the engine itself and with no changes to
the wiring between the distributors and spark plugs, it being understood
that the same distributors are used regardless of whether magneto or bat-
tery ignition is employed.
As a result of this interchangeable ignition arrangement engines used in
planes having little electrical demands can be equipped with magnetos and
those used in planes requiring considerable electric current, for wireless,
lighting, and so forth, can be supplied with battery ignition. The result is
that the weight of the engine for each service will be kept to the minimum
and an engine can be transformed from one service to another very easily.
Although both the 500 and the 800 h.p. engines were originally intended
for direct drive service, both have been built for use with gears, the gear
reduction forming a separate unit bolted to a special crankcase flange.
The gear reductions have been designed and built by the Allison Engi-
neering Company of Indianapolis. They are of the spur gear single reduction
type and are entirely self-contained. A noteworthy feature is the employ-
ment of a shock-absorbing drive between the crankshaft and the pinion that
has proved very successful in eliminating the gear trouble resulting from
impact loading. These gear reductions give a two-to-one reduction to the
propeller shaft that has been found to be particularly desirable for load-
carrying airplanes of moderate speed.


  p. 1294 (#202)                      #

1294
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
In addition to providing improved propeller efficiency, these geared
engines lend themselves particularly well to a streamline installation; and,
in this manner, improved propeller efficiency and decreased resistance com-
bine to offer important advantages in airplane performance.
The 500 h.p. engine has also been built in the inverted type and, as men-
tioned previously, an inverted engine has many advantages for aircraft
use. It is entirely possible that the future will see the inverted engine as
one of the standard types. A side view and a rear end view of the inverted
model 1500 engine is shown in Fig. 7.
An inverted engine, when used in airplanes, possesses four major ad-
vantages. First, in the usual type of single-engine tractor airplane, the
pilot's vision straight ahead is seriously obscured by the cylinders and
cowling of either a V-type or a large radial-type engine. He is practically
compelled to swing the airplane from its true course to obtain a view along
the normal line of flight. It is unthinkable that poor vision dead ahead,
such as this, will be tolerated when the air is as full of airplanes as we expect
it to be in the future. Collisions in the air, even today, are far more
numerous than would be the case if poor visibility conditions did not exist.
With an inverted engine, as shown in Fig. 14, the cowling in front of the
pilot can be made to slope to meet the line of the propeller hub spinner; in
this way, favorable vision can be secured.
The second major advantage of the inverted engine lies in the high center
of thrust that ensures better flying qualities, in that it offsets the tendency of
the airplane to climb when full power is on. The additional propeller tip
clearance is also desirable from a consideration of taxiing over rough ground
and, in some cases, removes the limitation on the diameter of the propeller
that would otherwise exist.
A third point in favor of the inverted engine is its accessibility to a
mechanic working on the ground. If the engine mounting is properly
designed and the cowling suitably arranged, the engine can be readily
worked on from the ground without the necessity for stepladders and other
equipment. Furthermore, the crankcase covers can be removed and the
bearings examined, should this be desirable.
The fourth point in favor of the inverted engine has regard to the lo-
cation of the carburetors that, in many installations, will allow gravity fuel
feed and will avoid the use of complicated piping and pumping arrange-
ments. The fire risk is also diminished to a certain extent with this ar-
rangement, for gasoline leaks are confined to the extreme bottom of the
installation, and covering the whole exterior of the engine with gasoline, as
is normally the case, is not possible.
MERCHANT MARINE
Shipowners' Plan for Solution of Merchant Marine Problems
The Nautical Gasette, 16 May, 1925.-After a conference, which lasted
two weeks, the American Steamship Owners' Association, Pacific American
Steamship Association and Shipowners' Association of the Pacific have
drawn up a report and list of recommendations for the development of an
American merchant marine.
The associations are the opinion that further efforts along the lines fol-
lowed in the past will not only fail to place American shipping on a
successful and permanent basis, so as to fulfill the objects of a merchant
marine, but, instead, the hope of ever having a privately owned merchant
marine, adequate for national requirements, will be destroyed. The mistakes
of the past are not without remedy, however, and the associations believe
that if the problem is taken in hand in a businesslike way a merchant marine
adequate for all necessary purposes of national defense and trade can be


  p. 1295 (#203)                      #

1925)
1295
Professional Notes
established and carried on under private ownership at a far less cost to
the government than at present. The report states that this cannot be
done by the private owner unaided, however, due to existing differentials in
fixed charges and cost of operation, upkeep and overhead, as compared
with those of foreign competitors, and if aids are not granted, the United
States, in due course, will not have a merchant marine of any marked im-
portance in foreign trade. The items of higher cost in the ownership and
operation of American ships in foreign trade are given by the associations
as follows:
(a) Greater capital investments due to higher shipbuilding costs in the
United States, with resultant larger interest charges, higher depreciation and
increased insurance premiums
(b) Larger crews and higher wages in respect to both officers and crews.
(c) More expensive food scale for both officers and crew than required
by foreign nations.
(d) Fifty per cent duty on repairs made in foreign ports and higher
cost of repairs made in American ports.
(e) Unnecessarily burdensome and expensive inspection laws.
(f) Numerous pay-day demands and provisions in the laws making it
difficult to enforce discipline in foreign ports, and resulting in delays from
dissipation and insubordination.
(g) Government fines, resulting from smuggling aliens, liquors and nar-
cotics, despite every effort by shipowners to prevent them.
(h) Greater costs of equipment and supplies.
(i) Unfair admeasurement rules, resulting in increased Panama Canal
tolls and port charges based on the tonnage of American ships.
(j) Higher costs of overhead due to higher standard of wages in the
United States.
The associations state that the time has come when there must be a re-
constitution of the membership and the functions of the Shipping Board, as
experience has shown that it is unwise to have vested in the same body the
functions and duties of making and enforcing such regulations as are
necessary for the promotion of shipping generally, and those of operating
the government's ships and liquidating the government out of the shipping
business. It follows that the body vested with the power of regulation need
not be large, but, on the contrary, a smaller body, composed of men who
know the needs of shipping, will function more efficiently.
Accordingly it is recommended :
(1) That the United States Shipping Board be reduced to three members,
to be appointed by the President without regard to political or geographical
considerations, but with special regard to their business qualifications, one of
whom shall have had commercial shipping experience.
(2) That the Shipping Board so constituted be vested with such regula-
tory powers as are necessary to the promotion of an American merchant
marine, similar to those regulatory powers conferred upon the Shipping
Board by “The Shipping Act, 1916.'
The report avers that the government should be liquidated out of the
shipping business as rapidly as possible, and that this can best be accom-
plished by vesting the liquidating duties and authority in the Fleet Cor-
poration, under the control of the Secretary of Commerce, or a newly con-
stituted Department of Marine. In regard to this the associations
recommend :
(1) That the Emergency Fleet Corporation, either in present or modified
form, be continued in existence as an agency of the government to liquidate
the government out of the shipping business at the earliest possible moment.


  p. 1296 (#204)                      #

1296
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
(2) That the control of the Fleet Corporation be vested in the Secretary
of Commerce, or in a newly constituted Department of Marine, through a
transfer of the stock of the Fleet Corporation.
(3) That the Fleet Corporation proceed to a complete liquidation of the
government out of the shipping business as rapidly as possible, disposing of
the ships on such terms and conditions as will help to maintain them in
successful operation.
(4) That pending complete liquidation, the Fleet Corporation be given
supervision over the operation of those services that are found to be
essential to national defense and the promotion of foreign trade.
The associations believe that no service should be maintained regardless
of loss, but that a service should be operated only if the benefits derived
therefrom in promoting trade are commensurate with the cost to the
government. This, however, does not apply to any service the maintenance
of which is justified as a matter of national defense.
Regarding the determination of the services essential to the country's
welfare, hereafter to be maintained, it is recommended:
(1) That the Secretary of Commerce, Postmaster General, Secretary of
the Navy, Director of the Budget, and an American citizen experienced in
shipping, appointed by the President, be created a special agency to deter-
mine the nature and extent of the services to be carried on by combination
passenger and cargo ships, which are essential to national defense and the
promotion of foreign trade.
(2) That the Secretary of Commerce, Postmaster General, Secretary of
the Navy, Director of the Budget, Chairman of the Shipping Board, and
two American citizens experienced in shipping, appointed by the President,
be created a special agency to determine the type and amount of cargo
tonnage required in the services to be carried on by cargo ships, which are
essential to national defense and the promotion of foreign trade.
The report states that while direct aid should be given to those ships
which require it to be made commercially operative in essential services by
private owners, if the country is to have a successful merchant marine, it
is not believed that such aid should necessarily be unifornt to all ships. On
the contrary, it should only be given to ships in the respective trades to the
extent necessary to make their operations in any given trade, taken as a
group, commercially successful. Any flat rate of payment, such as a fixed
sum per month for men employed on the ships, or for mileage made, or
cargo carried, or based solely on the speed or tonnage of ships, would not
accomplish in all cases the desired results. Accordingly, the associations
recommend that the special agency created to determine the necessary
combination passenger and cargo services be vested with authority to fix the
amount of mail payments to be made to the owners of the ships in order
that they may be operated on a successful basis, and that the agency created
to determine the necessary cargo services be authorized to fix the amount
of compensation to be paid to the owners of these ships in order to ensure
successful commercial operation.
The report then takes up the question of indirect aids, under which are
listed changes in the Seamen's Act, navigation laws and immigration laws,
repeal of duties on ship repairs, reduction in Panama Canal tolls, exten-
sion of coastwise laws to the Philippines and island possessions of the
United States, elimination of government competition, and the coordination
of governmental departments.
In regard to the Seamen's Act, the associations recommend that it be
amended so as to provide that the master of a vessel will not be required to
pay wages to any seaman in a foreign port, if the head of the department in
which the seaman is employed reports to the master, and signs an entry in


  p. 1297 (#205)                      #

1925)
1297
Professional Notes
the ship's log to the effect that the seaman came on board at the last port
at which the ship touched in an intoxicated or doped condition, or was found
to have liquor or narcotics in his possession on board ship. Among other
changes recommended in the report are the provisions of the act requiring
the division of seamen into two watches, and firemen, and so forth, into
three watches be made applicable to vessels of 300 tons or more, instead of
100 tons and upwards, and that the crew may be used for the ordinary work
incident to the upkeep, sailing and management of the vessel. It is also
recommended that the provision for a complaint in writing that the vessel
is unsuitable to go to sea, be deleted, and that the determination of the
seaworthiness of vessels be left to the United States Steamboat Inspection
Service and the American Bureau of Shipping.
The associations suggest changes in the navigation laws in the respects
recommended in their reports previously made to the Shipping Board on
this subject. In regard to the immigration law, the report recommends that
it be amended so as to harmonize with the Seamen's Act, and that the
regulations of the Immigration Service be revised so as to be uniformly
applied in all ports in the United States. Concerning duties on repairs in
foreign ports, it is proposed that Section 466 of the Tariff Act of 1922,
which imposes a duty of fifty per cent on repairs to American ships made in
foreign yards, be repealed.
In regard to Panama Canal tolls, the associations suggest that the Panama
Canal Act be amended so that the admeasurement laws and the rules pro-
mulgated for the enforcement of same will not place American ships at a
disadvantage with foreign ships; that tolls be adjusted on partially loaded
ships; that the canal be kept open for the passage of vessels at all hours of
the day and night, except when it is in a condition as to render navigation
unduly hazardous, and that the act be further amended so as to provide that
no tolls shall be levied upon vessels passing through the canal, engaged in
the intercoastal trade of the United States.
In reference to the extension of the coastwise laws of the United States
to trade with the Philippines and other island possessions, as provided for in
Section 21 of the Merchant Marine Act, 1920, the associations propose that
representation be made to the President of the desirability of fixing a date
for the going into effect of such coastwise laws, as soon as the President
deems it expedient.
In regard to the elimination of government competition, it is recom-
mended that the government should retire from the shipping business now
carried on by the Panama Railroad Steamship Company between ports of the
United States, Panama and the Canal Zone, and that all government officials
and employees should preferentially travel, and all government cargo should
be carried, in privately owned American ships.
It is suggested in the report in connection with the establishment of a
Naval Reserve, that there be maintained under the supervision of the
Secretary of Commerce seven sailing school ships, with auxiliary power, to
train young men for the merchant service, and that men honorably dis-
charged from the navy, after sufficient service in the deck and engine room
departments to enable them to pass examinations for licenses as third
officers or as third assistant engineers, shall be entitled immediately to re-
ceive such licenses, and that A.B. certificates shall be issued to all navy
men immediately upon honorable discharge from the naval service. It is
further recommended that the personnel on American ships be reduced to
a parity with the requirements of the other principal nations,
In regard to inspections, it is proposed that the laws and regulations
governing the organization of the Inspection Service and the inspection of
steam vessels be revised in accordance with the recommendations previously
made to the Shipping Board in this connection. Concerning quarantine


  p. 1298 (#206)                      #

1298
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
regulations, the associations suggest that quarantine stations be established
at all the principal ports of the United States and its possessions, or, where
this is not practicable, that fumigation by competent private companies be
accepted.
Other features of the recommendations of the associations involve more
liberal allowances for depreciation of ships; freedom of transfer of ships to
foreign registry, except in national emergency; enactment of a compensation
act for ship workers, and adoption of continuous discharge books by the
federal government.
The shipowners' associations favor the maintenance of "the time-honored
policy of reserving the coastwise trade to American citizens and American-
built vessels," and ask that for the special encouragement of the inter-
coastal trade the United States mails, now carried in foreign-flag ships to
and from the Panama Canal, be reserved to American intercoastal steamers,
so far as practicable. International recognition of classification societies is
emphasized as desirable, and the shipowners approve an investigation of
deepening the New York barge canal, as an aid to American foreign
commerce.
As to the government's laid-up ships, the shipowners urge that those
vessels having no present or prospective value be sold for scrapping in the
United States or abroad, and that the better vessels of the laid-up fleet
be preserved until they can be sold to American citizens.All present
Shipping Board services that are deemed essential either to the promotion of
commerce or to the national defense, the shipowners insist, should be
operated by American citizens, "preferably those who have had the courage
to invest their money in the shipping business," and who have a capacity and
willingness to buy the ships operated as soon as possible.
National Merchant Marine Policy
By Cary W. Cook, The Nautical Gazette, 27 May, 1925.--It is necessary
for the national defense that the United States shall have a merchant
marine service sufficient to carry all of its domestic commerce and serve
as a naval or military auxiliary in time of war or national emergency.
It is desirable for the national defense that the United States shall have
upon the major trade routes between United States ports and foreign ports
combination passenger and freight lines with vessels of sufficient speed to
enable them to effectively compete with foreign lines in the carriage of the
mails and to serve as troop transports in time of war. Such ships to be
compensated by liberal mail subventions. Any other form of aid, whether
in form of cash subsidy, discriminating duties, free Canal tolls, or the like,
inevitably and invariably leads to a dependence on federal paternalism in
a field where individual courage and independence are demanded and should
not be granted.
It has been found by some of our large industries desirable to own their
own cargo vessels in the foreign trade, and this should be encouraged.
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the United States to encourage
the maintenance by private owners of such a merchant marine, assuring to
owners freedom from regulation or competition, direct or indirect, by the
government. It is recognized that to maintain and expand a merchant marine
the art of shipbuilding shall not be lost or impaired and that American ship-
yards must be encouraged to maintain themselves in a position to again
rapidly expand to meet any national emergency. To that end no vessels
except those wholly built and equipped ready for sea in American yards
shall be permitted to trade between ports of the United States except the
trade between United States ports and the Philippine Islands.


  p. 1299 (#207)                      #

1925]
1299
Professional Notes
Except in time of war or national emergency, there shall be no re-
strictions upon
Building for foreign owners.
Sale of American ships abroad.
Selling securities of shipowners or shipbuilders abroad as long as the
management through ownership of a majority of the capital stock of
building and owning corporations is in the hands of American citizens.
If under laws passed or to be passed in furtherance of the above declared
policy, American shipowners enter the foreign trade with purely cargo
vessels, they will be encouraged as far as consistent with the proper growth
of our foreign trade; but it must be recognized that ships alone do not
make foreign commerce, and sentimental regard for American ships in the
placing the exporters of our surplus in position to cultivate the friendship
of foreign buyers, themselves shipowners, and to take advantage of as low
freight rates as our competitors enjoy through free competition of foreign
foreign trade must not interfere with the more important consideration of
ships.
Foreign Trade of the United States in 1924
Nautical Gazette, 23 May, 1925.-American export trade, which has been
steadily increasing since 1921, continued its upward course in 1924 with a
gain of 10.2 per cent over the previous year, according to an analysis of
this country's foreign trade for last year made by the Foreign Commerce
Department of the chamber of Commerce of the United States. .
Last year's total exports, amounting to $4,591,000,000, were even higher
than those for 1921, a year in which the post-war value still influenced
foreign trade figures, the department says. The increase over 1923 was
$423,000,000.
It is shown in the department's report that in 1923 the value of our
exports was only ten per cent greater than that of our imports, but in 1924
exports outdistanced imports by twenty-seven per cent, the favorable balance
of trade in 1924 being $980,000,000, or more than two and one-half times
the 1923 balance. With an excess of imports of gold and silver amounting
to $222,000,000, our visible favorable balance of trade, which includes both
merchandise and gold and silver, amounted to $758,000,000.
The ten principal commodities in our export trade in 1924, representing
nearly half the total exports, were raw cotton, wheat, automobiles, gasoline
and naphtha, leaf tobacco, refined copper, lard, coal and coke, wheat flour,
and kerosene. Of these ten only two, lard and coal, fell below their 1923
total. All the others made increases ranging from four to 104 per cent.
The value of raw cotton exports, which accounted for more than one-fifth
of our total exports, totalled $951,000,000, or about eighteen per cent higher
than in 1923. The amount of cotton shipped abroad last year was
3,483,000,000 pounds, twenty-seven per cent larger than in the preceding year.
The dominant position of cotton in our exports is marked. Cotton out-
distanced wheat, second leader, by more than $700,000,000, the export value
of wheat being $237,000,000, or double its value in 1923, when it occupied
seventh place among the exports. During 1924, we shipped abroad
166,000,000 bushels of wheat, sixty-nine per cent more than in 1923 and
three times as much as before the war.
For a good many commodities the year 1924 was a record year in the
export trade of the United States. More crude and refined petroleum was
shipped out of this country last year than ever before--4,662,000,000 gallons
topping the previous high-water mark of 1923 by seventeen per cent. The
value. $418,482,000, was high-being exceeded only by the inflated values of


  p. 1300 (#208)                      #

1300
[July
U. S. Vaval Institute Proceedings
1920. Exports of gasoline and naphtha in 1924 totaled 1,180,000,000 gallons,
or forty-one per cent larger than the old 1923 record. The value was not
as large as the 1920 figure. Gas and fuel oil exports were also well above
the billion-gallon mark, reaching 1,438,000,000 gallons, or seventeen per cent
above the previous record, set in 1923. The value was topped in both 1918
and 1920. Kerosene exports amounting to 012,829,000 gallons were the
greatest since 1919. The amount of lubricating oil exported last year,
379,948,000 gallons, has been exceeded only once, in 1920. Exports of crude
petroleum in 1924 totaled 742,135,000 gallons, or about four per cent greater
than the previous record shipments of 1923. The value, $26,586,000 was
exceeded only in 1920. The exports of paraffin wax, 382,820,000 pounds,
have been topped only once, in 1915.
Machinery, vehicles and metals exports also shared in the high figures
of 1924. A new record was set by the exports of agricultural machinery
and impliments, the total value in 1924, $59.974,000, exceeding even the
1920 record, which was made during a period of exceptionally high prices.
The greatest number of typewriters exported, 270,000, since quantity data
became available in 1922, were shipped abroad last year. The abnormal
values of both 1919 and 1920, however, were higher than the 1924 figure.
The exports of adding and calculating machines, totaling 24.993 machines
valued at $5,965,000, have been surpassed only twice, in 1919 and 1920.
The greatest number of automobiles ever exported in one year, 178,883,
were sent abroad in 1924. The quantity topped the previous record of
171,644, made in 1920, though the 1924 value, $131,923,000, was considerably
smaller. The 974,47 tons of iron and steel scraps exported in 1924, as well
as the value, $1,528,000, were exceeded only in 1920. The value of cutlery
exports, $9,529,000, has been surpassed twice only, in 1919 and 1920.
Seven years ago, in 1917, refined copper exports topped the billion-pound
inark. Again, in 1924, was this mark passed, with a total of 1,009,000,000
pounds. The value, $138,298,000, was the largest since 1918.
Logs and timber exports in 1924, 368,000,000 board feet, valued at
$27,500,000 were far greater in both quantity and value than those of any
other year since quantity statistics became available in 1912. The volume
of lumber (boards, planks and scantlings) exported last year, nearly
2,000,000,000 board feet, was surpassed only in three years, 1911, 1912 and
1913.
Record shipments of a number of foodstuffs were also recorded in 1924.
More apples were sent abroad in 1924 than ever before--6,719,000 boxes
and 1.881,000 barrels. Their value was $24,287,000, also a new mark.
Record exports were noted in oranges--2,564,000 boxes, valued at $8,685,000
--new high marks in both quantity and value.
A few import records were made in 1924. A greater amount of standard
newsprint paper, 2,714,000,000 pounds at the highest value, $101,000,000, was
imported in 1924 than in any other year. The quantity was about four per
cent greater and the value three per cent higher than the previous record
imports of 1923.
Record imports of bananas were also made last year--47,384,000 bunches,
valued at $22,074,000-exceeding the previous quantity record of 46,640,000
bunches made in 1914 and the previous high value of $19,739,000 set in
1913. Imports of olives last year mounted to 8,093,000 gallons, twenty-one
per cent greater than the previous high mark set in 1916. The value,
$5,090,000, also was slightly higher than the old record of 1920. This
country also imported more figs than ever before, 42,465,000 pounds.
The amount of cane sugar imported in 1924, 8,272,000,000 pounds, was
exceeded only by the liuge imports of 1922, when 9,722,000,000 pounds were
received.


  p. 1301 (#209)                      #

1925)
1301
Professional Notes
A marked slowing-up of imports as a whole, however, was apparent
throughout the year 1924. The total imports amounted to $3,611,000,000,
a decline of $182,000,000, or about five per cent from the 1923 total. Only
two main import groups made gains over 1923. Crude foodstuffs increased
three per cent in value, and the petroleum-coal-glass group increased three-
tenths of one per cent.
Seven countries--Great Britain, Canada, Germany, France, Japan, Cuba
and Italy—purchased nearly two-thirds of American exports in 1924, nearly
$3,000,000,000 worth. These seven countries in recent years have invariably
been found among the country's ten leading customers, with the single
exception of Germany from 1915, through 1919. In 1924 thirty-five countries
each purchased more than $10,000,000 worth of American merchandise-
ninety-six per cent of all shipped abroad-the eighty-odd markets in the
rest of the world taking only four per cent of America's total exports.
Only six of the thirty-five leading nations-Canada, Japan, Sweden,
Norway, Hongkong and Haiti-bought less from us in 1924 than in 1923,
the increases among the twenty-nine others ranging to as high as six times
the 1923 figures.
Among our chief sources of supply, ten countries furnished us with
two thirds of our imports. In order of importance these ten leaders are
Canada, Cuba, Japan, Great Britain, Brazil, Mexico, Straits Settlements,
France, Germany and China.
Chairman ('Connor's Plan to Overcome W’age Differential by
Creation of Merchant Marine Reserve
The Nautical Gazette, 9 May, 1925.--Chairman O'Connor of the Shipping
Board has prepared a new plan for financial aid from the United States
Treasury to privately owned American vessels in foreign trade. The plan,
which will be the major feature of the shipping policy recommendations
which the chairman will make to the next Congress, contemplates the
establishment of a merchant marine reserve in which American seamen who
are to serve on American vessels in the foreign trade will be enlisted. Sea-
men in this reserve will receive from the government a monthly retainer so
long as they are employed on American vessels.
In explaining his plan Chairman O'Connor said:
"High wages constitute the real differential against American vessels in
foreign competitive trade. No nation ever had a real merchant marine that
was not manned by its nationals. An American merchant marine to be
effective as a means of national defense must be manned by American
citizens. American ingenuity will overcome any other difficulties.
"There is no incentive for the private owner, however, to employ
American citizens when for his purpose he can get foreign labor at a lower
wage. On the other hand, the government does receive a tremendous
benefit by having the vessels American manned.
"I favor legislation which will provide for the establishment of a
merchant marine reserve, whereby the government will pay to American
seamen enlisted in the reserve and who serve on American vessels a monthly
retainer.
"This retainer, besides insuring Americans on American vessels, will act
as an aid to American shipowners by absorbing the wage differential between
American and foreign wages, and this will tend to promote the transfer of
the government vessels to private American hands for operation.
"With an ultimate number of 15,000 reservists as a maximum less than
$2,000,000 would be required for the first year, and not more than $6,000,000
approximately would be needed to maintain this reserve when the maximum
number of vessels are in private hands.


  p. 1302 (#210)                      #

1302
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
"This maximum figure of $6,000,000 would represent the aid which the
U. S. Treasury would contribute towards the Merchant Marine for which
we would receive a guarantee of American manned, privately operated
vessels so necessary for national defense and for commercial purposes."
Discussing the subject further, Chairman O'Connor said:.
"We as a nation are committed to the policy of individual ownership in
business enterprise. We do not want the government in any business if that
business can be taken over by men who will run it with care, industry, and
economy generally used by a person who is spending his own money. I, like
the majority of our people, am flat-footed in favor of private ownership and
private operation, but neither my opinion nor that of the public is going
to induce a man to buy a ship and go to sea. You can “Resolve" that an
American ship is a good thing, but you cannot “Whereas” a man into
buying a ship.
“The Shipping Board has six hundred ships which are available or can
be made available for foreign trade. All of these ships are for sale at
bargain prices.
"For every ship that an American citizen buys he will require a crew of
forty men. I am using top figures. To each of these men he will have to
pay twenty dollars more a month than is paid to a man doing the same kind
of work on a foreign ship. I am still using top figures. For a crew of
forty men he has to pay $9,600 more per year than is paid for labor on a
foreign ship. My plan is that when a man buys one of our ships and
operates it in foreign trade he shall be entitled to get out of the United
States Treasury twenty dollars per month for each man in his crew. The
sailor employed, however, must be an American citizen. The entire crew
must be American. Any sailor who ships shall receive no part of this
twenty dollars per month until he has completed a round trip. This plan, if
adopted, will practically put the American fleet on a fighting basis with
foreign competition.
"I have shown how to get at the figures, but the public is interested in
lump sums. How much is it worth in cash to the Cnited States of America
to have a cargo-carrying Acet of a size in all parts of the world, manned
by American men whose experience is available to the United States in
any and all emergencies? It will cost us in bonuses to American labor
on the oceans $960,000 dolllars for each one hundred vessels which we are
able to put into private hands.
"If we sell all of our ships to private operators, which in the course of
time we would hope to do, it would cost us less than $6,000,000.
"If the United States Government wants a permanent American merchant
marine—and we have said that we do want it-they can have it at the cost
above mentioned.”
Shipowners are of the opinion that such aid should come from the Navy
Department instead of through the Treasury Department, as suggested by
Mr. O'Connor, because the matter has to do with national defense. It is
recalled that the Navy Department had a bill introduced in Congress last
year along this line, and it is expected that renewed efforts will be made to
have the matter brought up again before the new Congress.
It is pointed out by shipowners that Great Britain, in addition to provid-
ing a naval retainer for both officers and men, pays allowances to certain
ships. One of these, the Mauretania, has an allowance of $700,000 a year
as an auxiliary cruiser. In France no retainer is paid to the men, as they
are subject to compulsory military service.


  p. 1303 (#211)                      #

1925)
1303
Professional Notes
MISCELLANEOUS
The Dutch East Indies; Projects for Defense
By Hector C. Bywater, The Baltimore Sun, 25 May, 1925.---London,
May 8.-One of the richest domains on earth is that comprised in the East
Indian Archipelago, the "spice islands" sought by Columbus, Vasco da Gama
and other doughty navigators of old. Thoroughly developed, the natural
resources of this region might prove of fabulous value. Even as it is they
yield rich dividends.
Two thirds of this vast territory, with all its actual and unexploited
wealth, is owned by Holland-a state of minor military importance, whose
home population numbers barely 7,000,000 souls and whose European fron-
tiers inclose no more than 12,600 square miles—yet for centuries this small
nation has ruled over Eastern dominions exceeding 735,000 square miles,
inhabited by 47,000,000 people.
It is surely a notable circumstance that amidst all the predatory wars of
the past, waged by great military powers obsessed with the land hunger, so
comparatively feeble a state should have been left in undisturbed possession
of these fertile islands.
Though by no means intensively cultivated, Java, Sumatra and Celebes
already produce a large surplus of commodities for which there is a great
and ever-growing demand.
Prospectors declare that the mineral deposits have scarcely been scratched,
yet the yearly exports of coal, tin and other minerals are considerable, and
the annual output of petroleum has almost reached two million tons.
Improved methods of cultivation would, it is estimated, double or treble the
present crops of rice, maize, soya beans, coffee, tea, sugar and rubber.
There are, however, special reasons for the immunity which Holland has
enjoyed in respect of her Eastern empire, and the much-abused "balance of
power" is mainly responsible. An attempt by any one of the great powers
to acquire the Dutch islands of the archipelago either by conquest or pur-
chase would probably be resisted by rival states, less on account of the
material wealth of the territory than because of its high strategical value.
To this fact must be ascribed the long-continued integrity of the Nether-
lands' East Indies, unless we admit that certain rough rules of honesty and
ethics still govern the world's political affairsa thesis somewhat discredited
nowadays.
Since Holland is absolutely dependent on these colonies for her economic,
and, therefore, her political, existence, it is not surprising that she should
be seized at times with nervous fears for their safety.
There was one period of the pre-war era at which Germany was suspected
of having designs upon them, but that peril, if it ever existed, has receded
into the background. Relief was openly expressed in Holland when the
former German lands in and about New Guinea were alloted to Britain
under the Versailles mandate.
Japan has since come to occupy Germany's place as the potential invader,
though it cannot be said that the Japanese, either by word or deed, have
given the least hint of any such intention. This notwithstanding many people
in Holland are convinced that Japan is turning covetous eyes on the East
Indies, both as an outlet for her surplus population and as a source of those
foods and mineral supplies which her own territory is no longer able to
furnish in the volume required.
The Dutch attitude on this matter is logical enough. Pointing out that
Great Britain, though a former ally of Japan's is building an expensive
naval base at Singapore for the protection of Australasia, they remind you
that their own eastern colonies offer a more tempting and a more accessible
prize to the Japanese.


  p. 1304 (#212)                      #

I 304
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The East Indies contain everything that Japan needs in the way of
supplies, comestible and industrial. Strategically they would be worth more
to her than Australia, and while the subjugation of a continent is a task
irom which she might well shrink-involving as it would a desperate
struggle against the whole might of the British Empire-neither the military
nor the diplomatic obstacles in the way of acquiring the Dutch islands would
necessarily prove' insurniountable.
In any case, they add, it is unthinkable that Japan would conquer
Australia and leave the nearer Dutch islands unmolested.
And so it followed that the Dutch have always taken an intense interest
in the Singapore scheme. Nowhere was chagrin more openly expressed than
in Holland when the British Labor Government turned the project down last
year. Now that work is to be resumed on the Singapore base the merchants
of Rotterdam doubtless sleep better o'nights, soothed by the reflection that
the long arm of the British Navy will effectively shield their opulent
colonies from would-be aggressors.
It is no exaggeration to say that the Singapore scheme evokes more en-
thusiasm in Holland than in England, perhaps because Holland stands to
benefit from it without sharing the cost.
On the other hand, she is not prepared to intrust the defense of her
oversea empire entirely to foreigners. Local combatant forces of con-
siderable strength are being organized, though the large naval program
introduced for this purpose a few years ago was rejected by the Dutch
Parliament.
Practically every new warship is dispatched, on completion, to the East
Indies, where the bulk of the Netherlands navy is permanently stationed.
Reliance is placed chiefly on submarines, minelayers and aircraft, supported
by a few swift cruisers. The East Indies submarine flotilla will eventually
number sixteen boats.
Dutch colonials take a pessimistic view of the Far Eastern situation.
Believing that Japan will soon be driven by sheer economic stress to extend
her boundaries, they foresee a great conflict in the Pacific, with the Dutch
islands playing an important role.
Their situation athwart the trade routes between Europe and East Asia
is such as to invest them with a strategic value of the first order. Neither
Britain nor America, it is held, could afford to stand aside if Japan sought
to lay violent hands on the archipelago. Holland thus reckons on finding
powerful allies if her colonies are ever menaced. Their very existence
increases her danger of being drawn into war.
"In the opening stage of war," writes a Dutch naval critic, "there would
be a desperate race to get possession of Java and Celebes, and here is
explained the seeming paradox that the Indies can be held permanently only
with the aid of an ally, and yet must be able by their own strength to repulse
the initial attack. Only in this way can we be sure that the help tendered
by an ally would not arrive too late."
A glance at the map reveals the soundness of this argument. If Celebes
or Dutch Borneo became Japanese, America's hold on the Philippines would
be rendered more precarious even than it is today. With Japanese naval
bases in Java, Singapore would be outflanked and the defense of Australia
made infinitely more difficult.
The contingencies foreshadowed may never materialize, but that they
are not wholly impossible is proved by Holland's action in spending large
sums to strengthen the defenses of her East Indian colonies.


  p. 1305 (#213)                      #

1925]
1305
Professional Notes
Some Aspects of Education
The Engineer, 17 April, 1925.–At the annual meetings of the Association
of Technical Institutions on Friday and Saturday, March 6-7, it was resolved
that a conference should be called to consider the relationship between
technical education and industries. We may assume from a knowledge of
the constitution of the association and from consideration of some of the
speeches and papers that the schools in the mind of the association were those
that are fed from the primary and secondary schools directly administered
by the board of education, and not the more scientific colleges and univer-
sities. Possibly we might differentiate broadly between the two by describ-
ing one as technological and the other as technical, the former teaching
more technology and craftsmanship than science, the latter more science
than technology. The boundary is ill-defined and fortunately in this con-
nection is of relatively little importance. The important thing is that the
association recognizes that the time has come when the position of technical
education ought to be reviewed. We are very heartily in accord with that
view, and trust that whilst the association is paying attention to that class
of education in which it is mainly interested, the position of the technical
education and training of those engineers who follow a rather more scientific
course, as affected by the progress of engineering since the last conference
was held, now some fourteen years ago, will not be forgotten.
In the course of recent inquiries we have noticed with the greatest
pleasure the growth of the belief that technical and scientific education
must do more for the student than merely provicie him with the tools of
his vocation. There are even, we are glad to say, those who hold that a
scientific education may be as “liberal" as the classical education of our
grandfathers, that it may open and broaden the mind and add that refine-
ment of feeling without which education can never become cultivation.
It is on that aspect of the subject that we desire to place a few ideas before
our readers today. Several hours of leisure have already been added to
the week, and in succeeding years the hours of work will grow less and less,
and the hours when men have to employ themselves will increase. While
the manner in which the working hours are used will affect the material
welfare of the nation, the employment of the leisure hours, the hours outside
the factory and office, will affect the intellectual development and the content-
ment of the people. There was a time when emplovers boasted of living
for their work alone, and when the men, willy-nilly, had no time to think
of anything else. We have heard it said by experienced works managers
that shops were happier in those days. Their work meant more to the
men. It was not merely an incident in the twenty-four hours; they went
to bed with it, they woke up with it, they thought little else, and talked of
little else. It filled their lives and, generally speaking, a full life is a
happy life. Clearly, such a view has its limitations. The mechanic, proud
of his handicraft, the machinist rejoicing in his skill and in his knowledge
of the characteristics of the tool he operated, even the laborer "upon the
floor” who might be called upon at any moment to exercise his ingenuity,
might find a relish in an existence spent wholly in work; but there are
craits less enviable than these crafts in which work is physical drudgery,
dull soul-breaking routine from which the worst-spent leisure is a longed-
for relief. It is to be feared that in engineering we have added to the
latter. Manual skill is now reserved for the few, while for the many,
labor is a long monotony of repitition. Natural progress, on the one hand,
and trade union demarcation on the other, have between them prevented
that self-expression which gave interest to labor. It is not surprising,
therefore, that men look ever toward the reduction of hours and turn their
minds to occupations which will give some outlet to their workshop-stunted


  p. 1306 (#214)                      #

1306
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
personalities. While this motion is taking place amongst the men themselves,
it involves those immediately above them, the charge hands and foremen,
and spreads even, in many cases, to the managers and directors. Work
shorter hours in the shops and sooner or later shorter hours will be worked
in the offices. This course, as we have suggested, is not wholly to be de-
precated. The man who thinks of nothing but his immediate work is
generally a dull dog-unless the work itself happens to be of the broadest
nature—but not to think of work and to think of nothing else is worse
still. It is for that reason, we say, that the problem of the future is the
problem of leisure. For the solution of it, we must turn to education;
not vocational education alone, but to some form of education that will
broaden our interests, enlarge our imaginations, and bring us into harmony
with other men. That kind of education can, we believe, be given in
technical colleges if a bold change is effected in curricula. At the present
moment the attempt is made to teach too much. The student is required
to study intimately too many subjects. What we conceive to be desirable
is a very thorough grounding in certain selected subjects, and a broad
general knowledge of others. Give the student a thorough grasp of
principles, and if he cannot make use of them he will never, with all the
teaching of details in the world, shine in his profession. For example,
the mechanical engineer should be taught with the greatest completeness
the principles of mechanics and machinery, but his knowledge of physics,
sound, light and heat-thermo-dynamics excepted-and of electricity and of
chemistry need not be so intimate, and should be qualitative rather than
quantitative. In these subjects he would probably learn more that would be
useful to him from lectures such as Tyndall gave than from classroom work,
which requires him to do mathematical exercises in subjects with the princi-
ples of which his knowledge is far from intimate. By the employment of
some such differentiation, we might succeed in making men with broader
interests in science as a whole, while assuring ourselves that on a few
selected subjects they were more throrough than men now are.
Of course, as ever the examination is the bane of education. We all
know that as a test of real competence it fails hopelessly, and yet because
it is so difficult to find any practicable alternative, we have gone on
employing it and allowing it to intrude more and more into the training of
our youths. As long as it, in its present form, is the test of merit, technical
education will remain what it is, and great authorities will have to lament,
as one did to us only a few days ago, that not more than five per cent of
all the students were worth the money that had been spent on them. A
single good question would be a better test than the half-dozen or more that
are now set before the candidate. More could be learned of a student's
knowledge and mentality by asking him to “discuss the derivation of the
laws of moving bodies” than by a dozen mathematical puzzles; more of the
practical value of his mathematical knowledge by a single question on the
value of superheat or higher pressures or reheating, than by a score of set
exercises. However, such things are details; we may take it that the nature
of examinations will change when at length we admit the defects of the
present systein of technical education, and recognize that in the future we
must make broader, more cultivated, engineers than satisfied the needs of
the past.
The War Fleets of the Nations
Engineering, 17 April, 1925.—The annual return presented to Parliament,
entitled "Fleets (The British Empire and Foreign Countries)," is generally
worthy of close attention, for it shows almost at a glance the relative
strengths of the navies of the powers. It also indicates, by the numbers


  p. 1307 (#215)                      #

1925)
1307
Professional Notes
and types of warships building and projected, the trend of naval opinion
in the different countries, and especially in the case when, as at present,
expenditure is very strictly limited in all countries, and only vessels con-
sidered most necessary are laid down. The reported intention of President
Coolidge to call another conference, for the consideration of further limita-
tion of naval armaments, renders the return for the present year of more
than ordinary interest, for the information it contains must form the basis
on which decisions are likely to be reached.
Events have moved so rapidly in these later times that it hardly seems
four years ago that the then President of the United States called a con-
ference of the powers, which resulted in the Washington Naval Treaty.
Yet such is the case, although the time taken in the necessary formalities
by which the Parliaments of the various countries endorsed the action of
their representatives at the conference postponed the effective date of the
treaty to August 23, 1923. It remains in force until the end of 1926, and in
the interval the signatory powers bind themselves to abide by its provisions.
It will be remembered that by the treaty, limits are placed on the tonnage
of individual units, on the largest caliber of gun mounted, and on the
total tonnage possessed by each nation, of both capital ships and aircraft
carriers, the two largest types of war vessels. The treaty by implication
also limits the tonnage of any light cruiser which may be constructed and
the caliber of its largest guns. Although some attempt was made at the
conference to limit the total tonnage of this type of warship, and also
that of submarines, no agreement was reached. Presumably the next con-
ference will reconsider these matters and endeavor to arrive at a satisfactory
result.
So far as capital ships are concerned, the treaty limits the standard
displacement to 35,000 tons per unit, the caliber of guns to 16 inches, and the
total tonnage to 525,000 tons each for the United States and the British
Empire, 315,000 for Japan, and 175,000 each for France and Italy, these
figures corresponding to ratios 15-9-5. For aircraft carriers the maximum
tonnage of a unit is 27,000 standard tons, the largest caliber of gun 8 inches,
and the total tonnage allocated to the United States and the British Empire
135,000 tons each, Japan 81,000, and France and Italy 60,000 tons each
The ratios are here 1-9-623, France and Italy obtaining a one-third larger
ratio for this type than for capital ships. Although 27,000 tons is the
maximum tonnage allowed, it was agreed by the conference that any of the
powers could build one or two carriers of 33,000 tons, provided the total
tonnage was not exceeded. This provision was included to meet the con-
venience of the United States, whose naval authorities, for reasons of
economy, desired to convert the battle cruisers Lexington and Saratoga,
of 33,000 tons displacement, to aircraft carriers. By Articles XI and XII
of the treaty no vessel exceeding 10,000 tons standard displacement, other
than a capital ship or aircraft carrier, or carrying a gun greater than
8-inch caliber, other than a capital ship, is to be laid down by any of the
signatory powers while the treaty remains in force. These two articles
thus fix the maximum displacement of light cruisers to 10,000 tons and the
largest gun carried in them to 8-inch. The standard displacement is very
nearly that of the ship fully completed, but without oil and fuel and reserve
feed water for boilers.
The provisions of the treaty outlined above are useful to remember when
studying the contents of the Parliamentary Return referred to at the outset.
A summary shows the numbers of completed vessels in the navies of the
powers, and the numbers under construction and projected. These are as
follows: British Empire, 467 and twenty; United States, 539 and forty-
four; Japan, 211 and sixty-seven; France, 219 and 126; Italy, 260 and fifty-
eight; Russia, 164 and thirty-five; and Germany, fifty-one and two. Judged


  p. 1308 (#216)                      #

1308
| July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
by completed numbers the British Empire takes second place to the United
States; for vessels under construction and projected it is last on the list,
except for Germany. Of the twenty British ships now being constructed
six were laid down during the war, two others are coastal motor boats.
If, however, the numbers of capital ships, aircraft carriers, cruisers,
flotilla leaders, destroyers, torpedo boats, and submarines are taken, the
British Empire has 348 completed; the United States, 478; Japan, 192;
France, 126; and Italy, 193.
The return shows that in capital ships, the British Empire, United
States, and Japan have the numbers and individual ships agreed to at the
Washington Conference, but France has one less-the La France sunk by
striking a rock in August, 1922—and Italy three less, viz., the Leonardo da
Vince, Vittorio Emanuele and Regina Elena. It was stated at the time of
the La France's loss that she would be replaced by a new ship but no steps
have been taken to carry this into effect. The numbers of battleships in
the various navies are British Empire eighteen, United States eighteen,
Japan six, France nine, Italy seven, Russia three and Germany eight, while
the British Empire and Japan have each four battle cruisers. The capital
ships of the United States are of newer construction than those of other
powers, seven having been completed since 1917. Japan has three completed
since that year and the British Empire one, the Hood. The average age,
reckoned from the date of completion, of the United States capital ships
is eight years, compared with ten for the British Empire, eight and one-
half for Japan, twelve for France, and thirteen for Italy. The capital
ships of the British Empire carry altogether one hundred 15-inch and eighty-
eight 13/2-inch guns; those of the United States, twenty-four 16-inch,
one hundred and twenty-four 14-inch and forty-four 12-inch; those of
Japan sixteen 16-inch and eighty 14-inch; those of France thirty 13:4-inch
and forty-eight 12-inch, and those of Italy sixty-eight 12-inch and twenty-
four 8-inch guns. The battleships of the American fleet have a maximum
speed of 20%2 to 21 knots, of Japan 22"/2 to 23, of the British Empire 21
to 25, of France 1994 to 20, and of Italy 211/2 to 23 knots. The British
battle cruisers have speeds of over 30 knots and those of Japan 2772.
Only three capital ships are under construction at the present time, the
Nelson and Rodney laid down in 1922, and the Russian Demokratuga started
in 1914, but unlikely to be completed. When the two British battleships
are passed into commission, four of the older ships will be scrapped.
Of the battle cruiser type, the British Empire and Japan are the only
two powers which have examples. The Saratoga and Lexington laid
down in 1920 by the United States were designed as battle cruisers, but are
now being converted.
Dealing next with cruisers, the return shows that the British Empire
has forty-nine completed and eight building and projected. These figures
compare with thirty-one and nine for the United States, twenty-eight and
eleven for Japan, sixteen and nine for France, thirteen and five for Italy,
seven and seven for Russia, and eight and one for Germany. The eight
British cruisers building are the Emerald, Enterprise and Effingham, laid
down during the war, and five of the Kent class ordered last year. Of the
nine United States vessels, the Memphis was started in 1920, eight are
authorized, and money has been recently appropriated for two. Nine of
the Japanese vessels are building and two projected. France has five
cruisers laid down and four more are to be ordered before 1929, while
Italy has two building and three projected. The total tonnages (a) of
compelted cruisers, (b) of those which, have been completed fifteen years,


  p. 1309 (#217)                      #

1925)
1309
Professional Notes
are now considered obsolete, and (c) of those building and projected are
given in the following table :
(6)
Nation
(a)
Completed
Tonnage,
Modern and
Obsolete
Building and
Projected
Tonnage
Obsolete
Tonnage
atc-b
British Empire.....
United States..
Japan.
France
Italy........
234,000
252,000
166,000
150,000
68,000
38,000
184,000
75,000
100,000
10,000
75,000 (?)
87,500
85,000
84,000
50,000
271,000
155,500
176,000
134,000
108,000
The displacement of the Kent class is not stated in the return, and in the
table is taken as 10,000, the maximum allowed and as shown for the latest
cruisers of all the other powers. Five each of the French and Italian
cruisers are surrendered German and Austrian vessels.
It is interesting to speculate on the direction in which the next Wash-
ington Conference, if held, will move in connection with cruiser tonnage.
If the 5-5-3 ratio adopted for capital ships and aircraft-carriers is suggested
and agreed to, there must result a great scrapping of British and Japanese
tonnage, or a large building program for the United States. On the other
hand, the British representatives may urge the ocean routes, which must be
protected to ensure an adequate food supply to this country, necessitate a
much larger ratio than to the United States and Japan, for which con-
ditions are different. The problem of arriving at a conclusion agreeable to
all promises to be a difficult one.
Of cruiser mine layers only one is referred to in the return, and this is
the British Adventure, laid down in 1922, but of which no details are given.
The British Empire is credited with the greatest number, eight, of air-
craft-carriers, all of which are recorded as built. The United States and
Japan have each two completed and two building, while France and Italy
have no vessels of the type built and only one each building. Of the total
of eighteen aircraft-carriers mentioned, only two, the Hermes and llosho,
were designed for the purpose, the remainder are converted vessels. The
eight of the British Empire are the Glorious, Courageus, Furious, Hermes,
Eagle, Argus, Pegasus and Ark Royal, the total tonnage being 114,000 tons.
Of these, the two first are under conversion, and until they are completed
the tonnage afioat will be 77,000, or rather over one half the amount allowed
by the treaty. The Wright and Langley, the two completed American
vessels, have a tonnage of 24,000 and a speed of 15 knots. With the
Saratoga and Lexington completed the total tonnage will be 90,000. The
Hosho and Wakamiya, of the Japanese Navy, are of 15,000 tons total, the
first named having a speed of 25 knots. The Akagi, a battle cruiser, and
the Kaga, a battleship, each of 27,000 tons are being converted to aircraft-
carriers. The French are converting the battleship Béarn, of 21,000 tons,
and the Italians a merchant ship of 5,000 tons for the same purpose. It is
evident the three strongest naval powers anticipate that the aircraft-carrier,
a type unknown at the outbreak of war in 1914, will play an important part
in future naval warfare.


  p. 1310 (#218)                      #

•1310
(July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Interesting figures are given in relation to the torpedo craft-flotilla
leaders, destroyers, torpedo boats and submarines—of the various navies.
Flotilla leaders are a type first used in the British Navy, the earliest being
ordered just before the war. They are the leaders and flagships of the
torpedo flotillas, and for this reason are larger and faster than destroyers.
The British Empire has seventeen completed and one—the Keppell-laid
down in 1918 still under construction. The American and Japanese Navies
have no vessel of the type, and are not building or proposing to build any.
The French have one, a surrendered German vessel, and the Italians nine,
four being of small tonnage. The French naval authorities have, however,
adopted the type, are building six, and fifteen more are to be laid down
before 1929. Those under construction are powerful vessels of 2,360 tons
displacement, 50,000 horsepower, 3572 knots speed, with five 5.1-inch guns,
and six torpedo tubes. The largest British vessels are of 1,800 tons, 40,000
horsepower, 361/2 knots speed, with five 4.7-inch guns and two triple torpedo
tubes. Italy is building two of the type, of 2,200 tons each, 50,000 horse-
power, 35 knots speed, and eight 4.7-inch guns. In torpedo boat destroyers
the United States hold a big lead, 309 being completed and twelve projected.
The British Empire follows with 189 and two; while Japan has 101 com-
pleted and twenty-three building and projected. The corresponding numbers
for France are fifty-four and thirty-six, for Italy fifty-three and twenty-
four; and for Russia eighty and twenty-six. The total completed tonnages,
including flotilla leaders, are as follows: United States, 355,000 tons of
which by far the greater proportion have been completed since 1917; 15,000
tons have been completed over twelve years and are, therefore, considered
obsolete. The tonnage of the other powers are: British Empire, 234,000;
Japan, 88,000, including 9,500 obsolete; France, 41,000, 7,500 obsolete; and
Italy, 39,000, of which 2,700 is out of date. Japan has under construction
eight destroyers of 1,400 tons each, and fifteen others are authorized;
France has laid down eighteen of about 1,450 tons, and contemplates another
eighteen before 1929; Italy has eight under construction, and eight others
ordered.
The only navy possessing torpedo boats is Italy, which has sixty-eight
of these craft. No further vessels of the type are being constructed for the
Italian or other navies, and in view of this the designation of torpedo boat
destroyers is obsolete.
In submarines, the Unted States also hold a lead, nearly as pronounced
as for destroyers since 118 are completed and fifteen building and projected.
The corresponding figures for other nations are: Breat Britain, sixty-three
and four; Japan, fifty-one and twenty-eight; France, forty-six and fifty-
nine; and Italy, forty-three and twenty. The completed tonnages are:
United States, 80,000, of which 10,000 is stated to be for coast defense only;
the British Empire, 53,000; Japan, 30,000, including 1,700 obsolete having
been completed over ten years; France, 30,000, of which 1,700 is obsolete;
and Italy, 17,500.
Of the fifteen submarines building and projected by the United States,
three fleet submarines of 2,200 tons surface displacements, and three of 900
tions are under construction, five more of the former type are authorized
but not laid down, and four more are projected. Of the four building for
the British Empire two were laid down in 1918X1 in 1922 and Oi in
1924. Japan laid down eight of over 1,000 tons last year, four of a smaller
type are also building, and sixteen are authorized. France has embarked
on a very extensive submarine program, two of 1,360 tons, nine of 1,130,
and eighteen of 590 having been laid down since 1922. Two cruiser sub-
marines of 3,000 tons each, and thirty-four of ordinary type are to be
ordered before 1929, while three of 590 tons, termed second class, are to be


  p. 1311 (#219)                      #

1925)
1311
Professional Notes
laid down each year. Italy has placed orders for twelve submarines, four
being of 1.300 tons, four of 800, and four of 780, and eight others are
projected. These figures show very clearly that large programs of sub-
marine construction are contemplated by nearly all the powers. .
Six other types of war vessels are included in the return: viz., coast
deiense vessels, sloops, coastal motor boats, gunboats, and despatch vessels,
river gunboats, and minesweepers. In all these classes, with the exception
of gunboats and despatch vessels, the British Empire leads in numbers. In
coast defense vessels the British have three, the only other being one
possessed by the United States. The British Navy has thirty-five sloops, and
the French eight; twenty-nine coastal motor boats, Japan and France two,
and Italy twelve; two gunboats and despatch vessels, and France forty-nine;
eighteen river gunboats, and Japan eight; sixty-two minesweepers, the
United States having forty-five, Japan three, France twenty-nine, and Italy
forty. In this last type which was shown to be very necessary by war
experience, are all relatively new vessels.
A close study of the contents of this Parliamentary Return leaves many
impressions, but amongst these the strongest are the marked superiority of
the American Navy in all types of war vessels, with the exception of
cruisers and aircraft carriers; the increasing importance of aeroplanes in
future naval operations expected by the three leading powers, but not
apparently by France and Italy; the activity in torpedo craft construction
by all the powers, with the exception of the British Empire, and the increas-
ing tonnage of individual units; and finally, the relatively small program of
British new construction. This last impression is undoubtedly a result of
financial stringency, a cause which appears to have little influence on new
construction in other countries.
CURRENT PROFESSIONAL NOTES AND PAPERS
"The Design of Merchant Ships," "Seaworthiness, Stability and Rolling,"
"The Strength of Ships," and other articles in The Annual Number of The
Shipbuilder, May, 1925.
"New Motor Liner Aorangi.” The Scientific American, June.
"The Gauging of Rivers and Tidal Currents." Engineering, May 15, 1925.
"Principles of Metallurgy of Ferrous Metals," and "A Chart for De-
termining the Weight of Moist Air." Mechanical Engineer, June, 1925.
“The Limiting Range of Airplanes." Aviation, May 25, 1925.
“The Air Requirements of the Army,” and “The Evolution of Artillery
in the Great War.” The Journal of the Royal Artillery, April, 1925.
"The Role of Malleable Cast Iron in Ordnance," and "Air Clarifiers."
Army Ordnance, March-April, 1925.
"The United States and Rigid Airships.” The Engineer, April 24, 1925.


  p. 1312 (#220)                      #

NOTES ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
FROM MAY 7 TO JUNE 7
PREPARED BY
PROFESSOR ALLAN Westcott, U. S. Naval ACADEMY
• EUROPEAN DEBT NEGOTIATIONS
UNITED STATES REQUESTS SETTLEMENT.—In the third week of May the
American State Department acting through the United States ambassadors
in foreign capitols, and as a channel of transmission for the United States
debt Commission, suggested to the French, Italian, Belgium and other Euro-
pean governments in debt to the United States the desirability of appointing
debt funding commissions for the adjustment of these debts. This publicly
announced step had been preceded by informal conversations with France
and other powers.
The European nations who have funded their American debt, and those
who have not made such arrangements, are indicated by the following
lable expressed in millions of dollars (taken from Time, of 25 May):
UNFUNDED
FUNDED
France ... ..........$4,210 Great Britain ........$4.554
Italy ..
..... 2,138 Poland
.... 178
Belgium .....
Finland
Russia ......
225 Lithuania .....
Czecho-Slovakia
118 Hungary .........
Yugo-Slavia
Rumania ...
$4,749
Austria ......
Esthonia .....
Greece .......
Armenia ..
Latvia
$7.369
Total ........
.............$12,118
FRANCE CONSIDERS DEBT PROBLEM.-On May 15 it was announced that
the French Cabinet had delegated Foreign Minister Briand and Finance
Minister Caillaux to consult experts and create what would be in effect
a French funding committee to work out definite proposals to submit to
the United States. The present ministry in France thus manifested a serious
intention to reach a solution of the problem, which has already proved
embarrassing to France in matters of foreign policy. Suggestions have


  p. 1313 (#221)                      #

1925]
1313
Notes on International Affairs
appeared to the effect that the British Government would not object to terms
to France more favorable than those accorded to Great Britain.
BELGIUM APPOINTS COMMISSION.—It was announced on May 30 that
the Belgian Government had appointed former Premier Theunis as chair-
man of the Belgian Debt Commission, and that the commission would
depart for the United States at an early date. In addition to her American
debt of $480,000,000, Belgium owes $503,000,000 to Great Britain and
$584,000,000 to France. Belgium contends that payment of her indebtedness
has been made contingent upon payments from Germany, but it is the view
of the United States authorities that such a correlation has not bcen
conceded.
EUROPEAN "SECURITY” NEGOTIATIONS
AGREEMENT BLOCKED OVER RHINE ZONE.-During May, Great Britain,
France and Germany continued to consider the possibilities of a tri-partite
security agreement. A compact which should include Germany was preferred
by a majority of the present British Ministry over an agreement between
Great Britain and France alone. Germany had already professed willing-
ness to guarantee the security of France's eastern frontier, provided Germany
was given promise of a possible rectification of her own eastern boundaries.
France, however, bound already by agreements with Poland, Czecho-
slovakia and other states of eastern Europe, found it difficult to enter into
an agreement which, while assuring her own safety, would leave her
powerless to interfere in behalf of her allies and would give Germany
virtually a free hand in eastern Europe. On the other hand, German
authorities characterized as "unbelievable” the demand of France for the
right to march across the Rhineland to aid her Polish and Czechoslovak
allies.
Specifically, France hesitated to agree that, as Germany proposed, the
neutralized strip along the Rhine should serve not only to secure France
from German attack, but also to secure Germany under all circumstances
against French action. The views of the French Government were set
forth in a note to Germany penned by M. Briand in the latter part of May.
GERMANY'S EASTERN FRONTIER.—A memorandum on British foreign
policy, prepared by the British Foreign Office last February and intended
only for presentation to the Cabinet, appeared in the press on May 2. In
this memorandum, the British Foreign Office frankly stated that "it may be
possible to revise by European agreement the dangerous conditions involved
in the Silesian Settlement and the Polish Corridor.” This statement indicated
not only a British tendency to recognize the validity of Germany's grievances
regarding her eastern boundaries, but also the menace to the peace of
Europe in this situation. The desire of Germany for a union with Austria,
however, met with the united opposition of both Great Britain and France.


  p. 1314 (#222)                      #

1314
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
GERMAN DISARMAMENT.-- In the midst of security negotiations, the
Allied powers agreed upon the terms of a note to Germany regarding her
non-fulfillment of the disarmament provisions of the Versailles Treaty,
and this note was transmitted on June 2. · The belief was expressed that
Germany would be able to carry on the requirements by next September,
and that evacuation of the Cologne area would then be possible. The note
called for dissolution of the German General Staff, dissolution of all secret
organizations, dismantling of former munitions factories in the Ruhr, and
demilitarization of the police.
The Reparations Commission reported on May 29 that Germany had
carried out the terms of the Dawes plan.
FRANCE
THE RIFF WAR.—During May it appeared clear that the hostilities
between French forces and the Riff tribes in Morrocco would be a long-
drawn-out affair. This is explained partly by the fact that France by inter-
national agreement is not permitted to carry hostilities within the Spanish
zone where the Riffs have their strongholds, and partly by the fact that the
political opposition of the socialist and Communist parties in France re-
strains the Government from an aggressive campaign. In these circum-
stances, and pending the arrival of reinforcements, General Lyauty estab-
lished a strong defensive line north of Fez. A special envoy was sent to
Spain to negotiate for Franco-Spanish cooperation and a stricter blockade on
munitions of war reaching the Riffs through the Spanish lines.
GERMANY
HINDENBURG INAUGURATED.-General von Hindenburg took oath of office
as President of the German Republic before the President of the Reichstag
at noon on May 12. On his entry into Berlin previous to his inauguration,
the president-elect was greeted by an immense throng estimated at 500,000
people. Following the ceremony of inauguration, the President reviewed
his guard of honor, composed of an honor company of his old regiment, the
Third Prussian Guards.
On May 20 the Reichstag supported the Luther Ministry by a confidence
vote of 214 to 129 in questions of internal policy.
GERMAN FOREIGN POLICY.—Berlin, 18 May.-Bitter criticism of the
Entente attitude toward Gerniany, especially regarding the continued non-
evacuation of the Cologne zone, was expressed with his customary vehemence
today by Foreign Minister Stresemann, in his long-awaited speech before
the Reichstag on German foreign policy.
The tone of Herr Stresemann's speech, which lasted more than an hour
and a half, was contained in the following statement:
"The dispute between the Entente and Germany does not hinge on the
fulfillment or non-fulfillment of this or that clause of the Versailles Treaty.
It hinges on the question of whether respect and equality can be denied for
an indefinite period to a cultured nation of 60,000,000 souls."
Referring to the question of Germany's eastern frontiers, which has so
agitated Europe recently, Herr Stresemann denied that Germany's proposals


  p. 1315 (#223)                      #

1925)
1315
Notes on International Affairs
implied any hostility toward Poland, or foreshadowed a German attempt to
alter the eastern frontiers by force, but he added that Germany never would
agree to the permanency of those frontiers. In conclusion, he emphasized
Germany's willingness to negotiate toward a solution of the pending
difficulties, adding, however, that all efforts must fail unless other nations
were inspired by the same honorable desires.
Referring to Germany's entry into the League of Nations, Herr Strese-
mann repeated what German spokesmen already have stated: viz., that a
disarmed Germany cannot undertake any warlike move such as would be
possible to nations which have not disarmed. This German view has not
been taken into account at Geneva by the League's Council, he said.
Herr Stresemann then reiterated the German Government's intention to
carry out the Dawes plan. So far, Germany has fulfilled all of her obliga-
tions under the plan, he said, and she means to continue doing so, despite
changes in her Government. He also took up the recent improvement in the
relations between Germany and other nations. Among these he especially
enumerated the United States, Mexico and Japan. The United States, he
declared, is the most active nation in furthering the economic restoration of
Europe, adding that no nation could view this American activity with more
pleasure than Germany.
"I am glad to state that our relations with the United States are entirely
satisfactory," declared Herr Stresemann.
ARMS TRAFFIC CONFERENCE
DECISIONS OF CONFERENCE.—The Arms Traffic Conference which
assembled in Geneva early in May with representatives of forty-four
nations, continued in session throughout the month. The business of the
conference was to consider and revise the terms of a draft convention to
regulate international traffic in munitions of war which had already been
formulated by a committee of experts. The convention as finally agreed
upon will be submitted to the powers, and according to its present terms
will go into effect when ratified by twelve of the most important arms-
producing countries. In general, the smaller, non-producing nations oppose
the convention, since it will tend to limit their sources for munitions of war.
The Draft Convention establishes three categories of arms: (1) arms and
munitions exclusively designed for use in land, sea, or air warfare; (2)
arms capable of use for either military or other purposes; (3) arms of no
military value. Among matters tentatively settled in the conference may
be noted the following:
(A) Warships, submarines, airplanes, armored trains, gunpowder ex-
plosives, and most types of revolvers were transferred from the first category
(which cannot be exported without government license) to the second
category.
(B) In deference to the United States, it was decided that no central
bureau under the League of Nations should be established for the collection
and publication of arms traffic statistics, but that each producing nation
should adopt a license system and publish its own statistics.
(C) A geographic zone was tentatively mapped out to include thirty-
three nations (but not Turkey or Persia) in which arms traffic would be
restricted.


  p. 1316 (#224)                      #

1316
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
In general the United States delegation was successful in eliminating
from the clauses of the proposed convention any direct reference to utiliza-
tion of the League of Nations. The conference revealed also the unwilling-
ness of European powers to restrict arms traffic in view of the unwilling-
ness of Russia to enter into the agreement, and the absence of any general
European security compact. The producing nations hesitated to hamper
private arms manufacturers to the extent that their factories would fall
into disuse and be unavailable in time of war.


  p. 1317 (#225)                      #

SECRETARY'S NOTES
Membership New members joining since last report:
Coello, G., Lieutenant Commander, Ar Griffin, J. H., Ensign, U.S.N.
gentine Navy
Pennington, J. A., Lieut., U.S.N.
Ragonnet, E. L., Mr.
Due to detachment from the Naval Academy,
Resignation of Lieutenant Commander R. C. Smith, Jr.,
Assistant Editor U. S. Navy, has submitted his resignation as
assistant editor. Lieutenant Commander
R. S. Field, U. S. Navy, has been selected to succeed Lieutenant
Commander Smith.
The Institute desires articles of interest to all branches
Articles of the service, including the reserve force. Non-
members as well as members may submit articles, and
authors receive due compensation for articles published. Com-
pact, well digested articles are more likely to be accepted for
early publication. In accepting articles for publication, the In-
stitute reserves the right to have such articles revised or rearranged,
where necessary, in order to bring them up to the required stand-
ard of articles published in the PROCEEDINGS—the cost, if any, to
be deducted from the compensation due the author.
Twenty copies of reprints are furnished authors
Reprints of
free of charge. Additional copies to the number
Articles
desired will be furnished at author's expense, pro-
vided request is made before going to press.
Discussion of articles published in the PROCEED-
Discussions Ings is cordially invited. Discussions accepted
for publication are paid for at approximately
one-half the rate for original articles.
Book
Reviews
As soon as practicable after the publication of books
on subjects of professional interest, the Institute
aims to publish authoritative reviews of them.


  p. 1318 (#226)                      #

1318
[July
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
In the past, many errors have resulted from the
Address of
habit of changing an officer's address as soon
Members
as his transfer orders are published in the papers.
No change will be made in the future except upon receipt of
notification by the member concerned. Reliance upon the former
method may, in extreme cases, mean a delay of almost four
months. To insure the prompt delivery of the PROCEEDINGS and
other communications from the U. S. Naval Institute, it is essen-
tial that members and subscribers notify the Secretary-Treasurer
without delay of every change of address. No responsibility can
be accepted for failure to receive the PROCEEDINGS, where mem-
bers fail to comply with this rule. Changes of address should
reach the Institute by the 23d of the month, to be effective for the
issue of the PROCEEDINGS of the following month.
Wanted: The Naval Institute is desirous of obtaining sev-
Luce's
eral copies of Luce's Seamanship (any edition),
Seamanship and would appreciate it if anyone having same
would communicate with the Secretary-Treas-
urer, stating edition, condition, and price desired.
H. A. BALDRIDGE,
Captain, U. S. Navy', Secretary-Treasurer.


  p. 1318 (#227)                      #

gingering
rary
AUG 10 1925
United States
Naval Institute
Proceedings
VOL. 51
AUGUST, 1925
NO. 270


NST
ALI
NAV
NAVAL
ACADEMY
U.S.
ITUT
DENS
1873
SCIENTIA
CONTENTS
Flying Over the Polar Sea.-Byrd
Finding Geographical Position in North Pole Region. - Littlehales 1339
National Strategy.-Frost .
1343
Administration of Industrial Work in Navy Yards.-Williams 1391
Submarine Capabilities and Limitations. Baker . .
1398
The Salvage of S-19.-Hilliard . . . . . . . .
1408
How the Navy Helped Them Home.-Barker
1415
The Selection and Use of Binoculars.-McCracken.
1446
The Dacia Dilemma.-Wainwright .
1452
A Bachelor Looks at the Navy Pay Bills.-Rochester
1455
Honi Heke's War of 1845 in New Zealand.-McClellan
1459
The Army Industrial College.-Snow .
1469
Powell's "Perry's Victory on Lake Erie."-Lewis .
1473
The Pacific Zone.-Russell . . .
1480
Discussion · · ·
:
· · · ·
1489
· ·
Professional Notes
1499
Notes on International Affairs
1563
Book Reviews . .
1569
. .
Secretary's Notes . .
1570


  p. 1318 (#228)                      #

It Was The Idea Of Progress That
Brought The Naval Institute
Into Being
Columbus was a dreamer—but behind his dreams there was a
definite practical purpose. The wealth of Cathay, the spices and
perfumes of the East Indies were at the feet of the man to dis-
cover a new route to those lands. Intense study and a logical
process of reasoning had convinced Columbus that this planet upon
which we live is round. His was a mind years in advance of his
times. It was difficult to convince men of the soundness of his
project and the means for the accomplishment of his dream were
impossible to obtain for a long period. But, it was his idea which
gave this man the unbounded courage and untiring perseverance
to accomplish a quest even greater than that which he had
anticipated.
It was this idea of seeing beyond the times that led to the
organization of the Naval Institute. In the Navy, perhaps, more
than in any other profession, men with vision and far-sightedness
are needed. It is only by study, exchange of ideas, and an ability
to impart our ideas to others that any progress is made. For this
reason the Naval Institute has, through the publication of its
PROCEEDINGS, always encouraged officers to think along naval lines
and helped them to present their ideas to the Navy in a suitable
form. Articles in the PROCEEDINGS have been forerunners of
many of the great improvements in our Navy. But Progress
demands that we never stand still. The Naval Institute dreams
of greater advancement in years to come.
To accomplish the maximum amount of good it is desired that
every officer in the Navy be a member of the Naval Institute and
a subscriber to the PROCEEDINGS. To advance with one's pro-
fession one must keep acquainted with every move in that pro-
fession. The Naval Institute offers to officers of the Navy the
simplest method of doing this. The annual membership dues are
$3.00 (including subscription to the PROCEEDINGS). A check
payable to the Secretary of the Naval Institute, Annapolis, Mary-
land, will bring immediate attention.
Secretary of the to the Prol memb
The above was written by Midshipman (now Ensign) Harry Wagner of
the class of 1925, U.S.N.A., who won first prize for the most acceptable
advertisement for the Naval Institute-to appear in the 1925 Lucky Bag.
The Lucky Bag staff, ineligible in the contest, determined the prize winner.
-


  p. 1318 (#229)                      #

United States
Naval Institute
Proceedings
August, 1925
Edited by H. A. Baldridge

STI
AVA
TUT
U.S.
1873
U. S. Naval Institute
Publication Office: Menasha, Wisconsin
Editorial and Business Office: Annapolis, Maryland


  p. 1318 (#230)                      #

COPYRIGHT, 1925
BY
U. S. NAVAL INSTITUTE
The Collegiate Press
GEORGE BANTA PUBLISHING CO.
MENASHA, WIS.


  p. 1318 (#231)                      #

UNITED STATES
NAVAL INSTITUTE
P R O CE E DINGS
Vol. No. 51, No. 8
AUGUST, 1925
WHOLE No. 270
1319
VY
..............
1398
Contents
Flying Over the Polar Sea. By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER
RICHARD E. BYRD, JR., U. S. N., Rer. .........
FINDING GEOGRAPHICAL POSITION IN THE REGION OF THE
North POLE. By G. W. LITTLEHALES .....
1339
NATIONAL STRATEGY. By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER H. H.
Frost, U. S. NAVY .................... ........... 1343
NOTES ON ADMINISTRATION OF INDUSTRIAL WORK IN Navy
YARDS. BY CAPTAIN HENRY WILLIAMS (CC), U. S. N. 1391
SUBMARINE CAPABILITIES AND LIMITATIONS. BY LIEUTEN-
ANT WILDER D. BAKER, U. S. Navy ..
The SALVAGE OF "S-19." By COMMANDER ROBERT B. Hil-
LIARD (CC), U. S. NAVY .......
1408
How the Navy HELPED THEM HOME, BY LIEUTENANT
(jg) F. V. BARKER, U. S. Navy .........
1415
THE SELECTION AND USE OF BINOCULARS. BY ENSIGN
ALAN R. McCRACKEN, U. S. Navy ................
The Dacia DILEMMA. By Rear ADMIRAL Richard WAIN-
WRIGHT, U. S. Navy, RET. .......
1452
A BACHELOR LOOKS AT THE NAVY PAY BILLS. BY LIEU-
TENANT HARRY A. ROCHESTER, U. S. Navy...........
Honi Here's War of 1845 in New ZEALAND. BY MAJOR
Edwin N. MCCLELLAN, U. S. Marine Corps......... 1459
The ARMY INDUSTRIAL COLLEGE. BY CAPTAIN ELLIOT
Snow (CC), U. S. Navy.........
1469
POWELL'S "PERRY'S VICTORY ON LAKE Erie.” BY CHARLES
LEE Lewis, Assistant PROFESSOR, U. S. N. A. .. 1473
The Pacific ZONE. BY SIR HERBERT RUSSELL...... 1480
DISCUSSION ........
1489
PROFESSIONAL NOTES ..
1499
NOTES ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS...
1563
BOOK REVIEWS .....
SECRETARY'S NOTES ..........
............. 1570
The writers only are responsible for the contents of their respective articles
1446
1455
......................
1500
.
Editor, Captain H. A. Baldridge; Assistant Editor, Lieutenant Com.
mander R. S. Field.
Copyright, 1925, by U. S. Naval Institute.
Published monthly at 450 Ahnaip St., Menasha, Wis.
Executive, Editorial, and Business Offices, U. S. Naval Institute,
Annapolis, Md.
Entered as second-class matter at the post-office at Menasha, Wis.,
April 4, 1922, and at the post-office at Annapolis, Md., under Act of Aug. 24,
1912. Acceptance for mailing at the special rate of postage provided for
in section 1103, Act of Oct. 3, 1919, authorized
Membership dues (including Proceedings), $3.00 a year.
Subscription Rates, $5.00 a year. (Foreign postage extra.) Single
copies, 50c.


  p. 1318 (#232)                      #

OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTE
President
REAR ADMIRAL HENRY B. WILSON, U. S. Navy
Vice-President
REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD H. JACKSON, U. S. NAVY
Secretary-Treasurer
CAPTAIN H. A. BALDRIDGE, U. S. Navy
Board of Control
REAR ADMIRAL HENRY B. WILSON, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
Rear ADMIRAL RICHARD H. JACKSON, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
BRIGADIER GENERAL GEORGE RICHARDS, U. S. MARINE CORPS
CAPTAIN W. T. CLUVERIUS, U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN W. G. DUBOSE, (CC), U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN P. B. DUNGAN, U. S. Navy
COMMANDER BYRON MCCANDLESS. U. S. Navy
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER W. G. GREENMAN, U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN H. A. BALDRIDGE, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
PAST PRESIDENTS
ADMIRAL DAVID D. PORTER, U. S. Navy, 1873
REAR ADMIRAL JOHN L. WORDEN, U. S. Navy, 1874
REAR ADMIRAL C. R. P. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1875-78
COMMODORE FOXHALL A. PARKER, U. S. Nayy, 1878-79
REAR ADMIRAL JOHN RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1879-82
REAR ADMIRAL C. R. P. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1882-83
REAR ADMIRAL THORNTON A. JENKINS, U. S. Navy, 1883-85
Rear ADMIRAL EDWARD SIMPSON, U. S. Navy, 1885-87
REAR ADMIRAL STEPHEN B. LÚCE, U. S. Navy, 1887-98
REAR ADMIRAL WM. T. SAMPSON, U. S. Navy, 1898-1902
REAR ADMIRAL H. C. TAYLOR, U. S. Navy, 1902-04
REAR ADMIRAL C. F. GOODRICH, U. S. Navy, 1904-09
REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD WAINWRIGHT, U. S. Navy, 1909-11
Rear ADMIRAL BRADLEY A. FISKE, U. S. Navy, 1911-23
REAR ADMIRAL WILLIAM L. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1923-24


  p. 1318 (#233)                      #



  p. 1318 (#234)                      #


80°
Peary, April 6, 1909
85°
85°
North Pole
NE X PLO
R
E
D
hoan
Directions in which planes
Wilt explore
REGION Cape Corumbieren
OOOO
bondoo
ODOO
Hubbard
ERE 1
0000
LOFALASKA
HARCTIC
CIR
0
N
HU (
THE MACMILLAN ARCTIC EXPEDITION
UNDER THE AUSPICES OF
THE NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIET
Wauwe
......... Route of Ships
111. Route of Planes to Establish Airplane Ba
000000 Proposed Routes of Exploration Flights
0. 100 200 300 400 500
STATUTE MILES
Drawn in Map Dept. of The National Geographic Society
120°
110°
100°
Published by courtesy National Geographic Society, Washington, D. C.


  p. 1319 (#235)                      #

UNITED STATES
NAVAL INSTITUTE
PRO CE E DI N GS
Vol. No. 51, No. 8
AUGUST, 1925
Whole No. 270
FLYING OVER THE POLAR SEA
By Lieut. COMDR. RICHARD E. BYRD, JR., U.S.N., Ret.
Editor's Note: The following article was written by Lieutenant Com-
mander Byrd on board ship while making passage from Wiscasset, Maine,
to Sydney, Nova Scotia, and mailed to the U. S. Naval Institute just
prior to the departure of the expedition from Sydney for Etah. It is,
therefore, the last written account of the proposed flying operations over
the Polar Sea by a member of the expedition. This article, although writ-
ten exclusively for the PROCEEDINGS, was made possible by the courtesy of
the National Geographic Society.
W H EN Admiral Robert E. Peary, in 1906, made his farthest
westward trip to Axel Heiberg Land and the western part
of Grant Land, he twice thought he saw from the shores
of the Polar Sea the summits of a high land. The first time he
saw it was from the top of Cape Colgate, 2,000 feet above the sea
level. Of this experience Peary wrote: “North stretched the
well-known ragged surface of the polar pack, and northwest, it
was with a thrill that my glasses revealed the faint white summits
of a distant land which my eskimos claimed to have seen as we
came along from the last camp.” Again he saw this land from
Cape Thomas Hubbard. “I could make out,” he wrote, "appar-
ently a little more distantly the snow clad summits of the distant
land in the northwest, above the ice horizon.” Peary called this
land Crocker Land. Eight years later Dr. Donald MacMillan
went out 150 miles over the Polar Sea toward that land but he
never reached it. In his book he refers as follows to his experi-
.ence one hundred miles out from the shore: “There could be no


  p. 1320 (#236)                      #


5 NAVY
Naval Aircraft Factory
NavAL ARCTIC PLANE No. I


  p. 1321 (#237)                      #

1925)
1321
Flying Over the Polar Sea
doubt about it. Great heavens! What a land! Hills, valleys,
snow capped peaks extending through at least 120 degrees of the
horizon.” He went on fifty miles further and the land got no
closer, so he decided that it was a mirage and mirage it seems to be.
But, between Point Barrow, Cape Columbia and the North Pole
there lie one million square miles of unexplored region and there
are indications that within that area there is land. For example,
at Point Barrow, Alaska, the food stream of the tide should come
from the north if this million square miles were but a deep polar
basin. The times and ranges of the semi-daily tide from the
Greenland coast to the Alaskan coast also indicate that there is
land in the Polar Sea. Another indication is the great age of the
ice found in Beaufort Sea.
At any rate, the mission of the Naval Arctic Aviation Unit is
to co-operate with the MacMillan expedition in the exploration of
some of this vast region. The expedition is going under the
auspices of the greatest geographic society in the world, the Na-
tional Geographic Society which publishes the National Geographic
Magazine. It is sending along for scientific investigation an
ichthyologist and a geologist and the naval unit includes in its per-
sonnel an aerologist.
TYPES OF PLANES USED
The Navy has assigned three Loening amphibian airplanes to
this expedition. They have been designated the NA-1, NA-2, and
NA-3. It is a new type of plane designed and built by Mr. Grover
Loening. Only four of this particular type have been turned out.
The Army got the first one and would have received the next three
had not General Patrick generously given the Navy priority of de-
livery on them for this Arctic expedition. In order to get the
propeller forward on this amphibian it became necessary, due to
a protruding pontoon, to keep it high by inverting the Liberty
motor. It is interesting to note that on account of the cooling
system the inverted Liberty develops a little more power than the
upright Liberty.
The wheels are raised and lowered by an electric motor and they
can also be moved by a hand crank, in case the battery gives out.
The pontoon extends several feet beyond the propeller and makes
a satisfactory seaplane when the wheels are up. The plane is


  p. 1322 (#238)                      #


A-6921
U.S. NAVY
Naval Aircraft Factory
LOENING AMPHIBIAN, 34 REAR VIEW


  p. 1323 (#239)                      #

1925)
1323
Flying Over the Polar Sea
practically all metal with the exception of the fuselage bracing
and the wing covering. The whole machine is compact and
strongly built. Its wing spread is forty-five feet and length
thirty-three feet. It is a two-place machine with controls both in
the forward and after cockpits.
With an extra gasoline tank, two pilots, navigation equipment,
rifle and ammunition, and a month and a half supply of food
aboard, she is capable of making about one thousand miles if the
take-off is from the land. That is a splendid performance for an
amphibian. With the same equipment aboard she could take off
from the water with sufficient fuel for about seven hundred miles
flight.
Bases
The S.S. Peary and S.S. Bowdoin, which are conveying the am-
phibians and the pilots and mechanics into the Arctic, will base
somewhere neår Etah, 713 miles from the North Pole. There is
no land landing field at Etah. It will, therefore, be necessary to
look up and down the Greenland coast until a suitable field is
found. It would be dangerous to base the planes in the water,
due to the drifting ice in Smith's Sound. There are periods when
the water may be clear of ice, but no one can predict when the ice
will begin to descend. The planes would be crushed in between
the floes.
The Puary is only !34 feet long and there was some difficulty
in getting the planes and equipment aboard. The planes are stowed
astern, close together, with the wings removed. They cannot be
erected 0:1 the ship, due to lack of space, and it would be very diffi-
cult to put the wings on in the water, not to speak of the danger
of drifting ice. An endeavor, therefore, will be made to find a
beach so that two wingless planes can be put overboard, lashed
together and towed ashore. Without the wings or other support,
a plane in the water would, of course, upset. When the beach is
reached the wheels could be lowered and the planes pulled onto
the land by their propellers. There is such a beach twenty miles
sốuth of E:ah. With the two planes off the ship the wings could
be placed on the third plane on the ship and she could take off
from the vater and land at the land base. The advantage of the
amphibiou,: quality of these planes is clear..


  p. 1324 (#240)                      #


S. S. “PEARY” WITH THE THREE PLANES ABOARD. WINGS DISMANTLED

S. S. “PEARY" WITH WINGS IN Boxes


  p. 1325 (#241)                      #

1925)
1325
Flying Over the Polar Sea
After the first base is formed on land, practice Alights will be
made for the following purposes :
1. To give each motor ten or fifteen hours flying (including
what they have already had), so as to get as many as possible of
the kinks out of it before the actual expedition is started. There
is no reason why the inverted Liberty should not be as reliable as
the upright Liberty, but, like all new things, it has had many kinks
to overcome. The Naval Aircraft Factory took out most of these
troubles, which, in the short time allotted, was very remarkable.
The factory worked day and night, and had the Navy had no such
institution available, this polar project would have been impossible
this year.
2. To test out radio communication and radio compass bearings.
3. To investigate landing conditions toward Axel Heiberg Land
and Cape Columbia. (See frontispiece) Cape Columbia is to the
northward of Etah and is 413 miles from the pole. To go there
the flying would be over water and ice and there will probably be
landing places along the route in the water in the inlets along the
irregular coast lines. To get to Axel Heiberg Land there will
be rugged land and some fjords to Ay over. It is thought that the
base on the shores of the Polar Sea probably will be formed at
one of the above-mentioned places—the one that affords the best
landing facilities en route. We know that there are landing places
at Cape Columbia and Cape Thomas Hubbard, Axel Heiberg
Land.
It would not seem wise to load the planes to the limit for the
character of work that lies ahead of the naval unit because to make
the proper speed the motors would have to be opened up to such an
extent as would lessen their reliability. Therefore, the most prac-
tical way to accomplish the mission of the unit is to form an inter-
mediate base half way between the surface ships and the base on
the Polar Sea; in other words, to work gradually toward the ob-
jective rather than make spectacular dashes with overloads.
The distances from Etah (the ship base) to the following points
are approximately as follows: to the pole, seven hundred miles; to
Cape Columbia or Cape Hubbard, three hundred miles; therefore
it is seen that if the naval plane unit succeeds in establishing a base
on the Polar Sea, and an intermediate base between it and the ship
base (Etah), the planes will at all times be not more than seventy-


  p. 1326 (#242)                      #

1326
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
five miles from some one of the three bases while the preparatory
work is being carried out before flights are made over the Polar
Sea. At each of these bases will be food, engine fuel, supplies
and fire arms. The base on the Polar Sea should have, in addition
to the above: a radio operator, radio outfit, one eskimo, sleeping
bags and one small tent. The success of the establishment of such
an intermediate base should have military significance, in that it
will have been demonstrated that small plane bases can be located
by amphibian planes.
RADIO
Every effort has been made by the Navy to insure getting two-
way communication from plane to plane and between the planes
and the two bases—the ships and the base on the Polar Sea. The
planes now have installed on them both high and low frequency,
the former supplied by the Zenith Radio Corporation of Chicago
and the latter, standard navy sets. For the flights out over the
Polar Sea one plane probably will be equipped with a high fre-
quency set and the other with the low frequency. The third plane
will be held in reserve at the Polar Sea base. This plane, of course,
will also be equipped with radio. The radio set at the Polar Sea
base will not be powerful enough to transmit radio bearings direct
to the planes, so they will be sent to the base ships (Etah) which
will relay to the planes their bearings from the Polar Sea base
It is doubtful that entire dependence for navigating can be placed
upon these bearings. The high frequency set has the advantage
that if down and not smashed the plane can still send messages
back to the bases. Though the low frequency sets cannot send
from the ground they have the advantage of being standard
equipment and, hence, thoroughly known.
It is common knowledge that it is very difficult to get radio
messages through during daylight. Of course, the naval unit
will be operating in the Arctic during that time of yeir when the
sun does not set. As high frequency sets are the only ones that
can get through during daylight the expedition has been supplied
with them and it is hoped that the Peary and the Bowdoin can
at all times keep in touch with the Navy Department. That,
however, cannot be guaranteed.. . . . .


  p. 1327 (#243)                      #


GREEN LA
ONS
HYDROGRAPHIC OFFICE'S LINE OF VARIATION CHART


  p. 1328 (#244)                      #


our phil Pole
GREEN
TIE
C REGIONS
CHART MADE UPON SUGGESTION OF THE HON. CURTIS D. WILBUR, SECRETARY
OF THE NAVY, SHOWING MAGNETIC Dip CIRCLES AND LINES OF MAGNETIC
FORCE DRAWN WITHOUT REGARD TO THE GEOGRAPHICAL POLE


  p. 1329 (#245)                      #

1925)
1329
Flying Over the Polar Sea
NavigaTION
Navigating a plane over the North Polar Sea presents some in-
teresting problems. The Magnetic Pole lies on Boothia Peninsula
about twelve hundred miles south of the geographic pole and the
part of the unexplored region over which the naval unit expects
to fly lies between the two poles. Consequently, variations as
high as 180 degrees will be encountered. The exact amount of
this variation, however, cannot be known except by actual observa-
tions. The Navy's Hydrographic Office has constructed a “Line
of Variation' chart of the polar regions for the naval unit, but
these theoretical values may be in error as much as ten or fifteen
degrees..
To add to the difficulties of the dead-reckoning navigation the
ordinary magnetic compass will probably not be dependable in a
plane, due to the weakness of the horizontal component of the
earth's magnetism in that region. For example, Washington,
D. C., has a seven times greater component of horizontal force
than there is in the region over which the naval unit is to fly.
There is more of a tendency, of course, for the compass needle to
swing in an airplane than there is in a surface ship. One of
Amundsen's aides reported that the ordinary magnetic compass
was of little use even as far from the Magnetic Pole as Spitzber-
gen. However, this question can be settled only by actual trial.
It would have been unwise, therefore, to take airplanes into
the Arctic putting entire dependence upon the magnetic compass.
A sun pelorus made by Kelvin and Wilfrid O. White Company
has been procured. This instrument is set for the local apparent
time, declination, and latitude of a place, and the true course is
shown on a dial by a shadow thrown by a shadow pin. To steer
a course with this instrument, however, would require calculations
and a resetting of it at intervals, due to the changing azimuth of
the sun. It became advisable, then, to construct a similar instru-
ment with a twenty-four-hour clock so that the shadow could be
made to follow the hands of the clock and do away with the ne-
cessity of repeatedly resetting the dials. Mr. Bumstead, of the
National Geographic Society, was requested to construct this
compass, which he did in a very short time, working day and night.
The first instrument was successful and Dr. Grosvenor then took
him off from all work for the society so that he could give his ex-


  p. 1330 (#246)                      #


KELVIN AND WHITE COMPANY'S AVIATION PELORUS

BUMSTEAD TWENTY-FOUR HOUR WATCH SUN-COMPASS. NOTE THE SMALL
SHADOW PIN ON THE HAND OF THE CLOCK


  p. 1331 (#247)                      #

1925)
1331
Flying Over the Polar Sea
clusive time to constructing two more sun compasses. These com-
passes were delivered the day the expedition reached Wiscasset
en route to Etah. One of them was tested by taking it with a navy
standard compass to a locality free from local metals, setting it to
north, and moving the face of the watch parallel to the equator,
setting the twenty-four hour watch to local apparent time, and then
comparing the compass with the true north thus indicated. (The
sun compass shows the true course it is set to when the shadow
thrown by the shadow pin falls on the hand of the watch.) The
difference between the north of the compass and the north of
the sun compass was exactly the amount of the variation in that
locality. There will be errors when the plane is not flying level
but the general direction can be followed.
Of course, the Mercator projection is not practicable in the
polar regions. The most suitable chart available is a conventional
projection, the polar chart, No. 2560, published by the Hydro-
graphic Office of the Navy Department. (Opp. page 1339.) On
the polar chart the rhumb line would be spiral but the spiral would
not become very ominous until very near the geographical pole.
When steering by the magnetic compass alone (when between the
magnetic and geographical poles) it would seem advisable to use
the rhumb line, the curved course on the chart, because to steer a
straight line would necessitate changing the true course and the
variation every few minutes, whereas the rhumb line would ne-
cessitate only changes of five degrees in variation every fifteen
minutes. If the navigator is attempting to steer a straight line
and gets off his course because of fog or unknown variations or
bad compasses or other causes, he will then be in a bad shape for
he will be applying the wrong corrections when he changes his
varjation and his true course; his errors will be cumulative and
he may readily get lost.
If Amundsen's reports so far published are correct, they in-
dicate very clearly that he was considerably off his course and
wasted much gasoline because of it. He was steering due north,
so his true course should have remained constant and his variation
between Spitzbergen and the pole should have changed only ten
degrees. But, when the fog (and certainly it was no fault of his),
got him off his course he began cutting lines of variation and his


  p. 1332 (#248)                      #

RANZOS
PELA

1651-65
165
L
True Course North Compus Custs
705' for 100 miles, vos For 100 mio
Te for 100 miles, 110 for de miles
True Course 30
COLR
LE
CHART SHOWING THE RHUMB LINE COURSES THAT WILL BE STEERED OVER
THE POLAR SEA WHEN THE EARTH INDUCTION OR MAGNETIC COMPASSES
ARE USED. THE SUN COMPASS WILL GIVE A STRAIGHT LINE BY USING THE
LOCAL APPARENT TIME AND THE LATITUDE OF THE MIDDLE MERIDIAN-AT
LEAST A LINE THAT IS VERY NEARLY STRAIGHT


  p. 1333 (#249)                      #

1925)
1333
Flying Over the Polar Sea
troubles began. On his return trip he landed one hundred miles
to the eastward of his course.
It seems that the best method of using the sun compass is to set
it for the local apparent time and latitude of the middle meridian
that is to be passed. This gives for all practical purposes a great
circle which can be drawn as a straight line and it will not be
necessary to apply so many changes of uncertain accuracy. An
approximate rhumb line, however, can be steered with the sun
compass by resetting the course dial every twenty miles or so.
Science has no information on variation in the regions to be flown
over; it is hoped that the use of the sun compass will facilitate
the obtaining of information concerning this uncertain quantity.
Of course, when the sun is behind the clouds the sun compass
is useless and other means had to be found to supplant the sun
compass and the magnetic compass in case the occasion should
arise.
The Pioneer Instrument Company has developed an earth in-
duction compass which is much more sensitive than the age-old
magnetic compass and will probably react to the small horizontal
component of the earth's magnetism that prevails in the Arctic
regions. It is subject, however, to the same errors of large and
unknown variation as is the magnetic compass. Its principle
is simple. There is a coil which is revolved by a small electric
motor. When this coil revolves in the field of the earth's mag-
netism a current is generated which actuates a pointer on the
pilot's instrument board. When the instrument is set to the de-
sired course (after applying the variation and the deviation), the
pointer is on zero and the coil is parallel to the lines of force of
the earth's magnetism. Any movement of the plane off this course
turns the revolving coil at an angle to these lines of force and so
induces a current of electricity which increases with the angle the
plane is off the course. This throws the steering pointer off zero
and it becomes the pilot's job to bring it back to zero. This
compass is subject to a deviation which is especially large when
the plane is not flying on an even keel. Other deviations can be
eliminated by placing the coil far out on the wing where it will
not be affected by the metal, switches, radio, etc., of the plane.
The standard navy steering compass in the forward cockpit of
these amphibians showed some deviations as high as eighty de-


  p. 1334 (#250)                      #


The BYRD SEXTANT


  p. 1335 (#251)                      #

1925)
1335
Flying Over the Polar Sea
grees. It became advisable, then, to put another compass in the
after cockpit away from the starting switches.
ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATIONS
It is evident that quick and reliable methods of locating the
Sumner line must be available to the naval unit. Mr. G. W.
Littlehales, the Navy's hydrographic engineer, with his usual
genius, filled in the breach by calling attention to the very in-
teresting situation peculiar to the spot that we call the North Pole.
The north pole of the heavens and the zenith coincide. Hour
circles and meridians of longitude coincide with azimuth circles or
vertical circles. Parallels of declination coincide with parallels
of altitude. That means that the values of declination of the sun
and moon as given in the Nautical Almanac for any given time
equal the altitudes of those bodies at the North Pole. The moon
will be visible in the Arctic regions during August. The observer
taking sights in the Arctic regions can take the North Pole as his
computed point and he has his altitude for that point all worked out
for him in the Nautical Almanac. But that may better be left to
be told by Mr. Littlehales himself.
The naval unit is provided with sidereal watches as well as
G. M. T. clocks in order to facilitate working out moon sights.
In the location where the flying is to be done, using the above-
mentioned hydrographic chart, it will be sufficiently accurate to
lay down the Sumner line as a straight line on the chart so that
the lines of position can be plotted graphically with almost no
calculation.
The following instruments developed for the Navy's trans-
atlantic flight (1919), and which are now standard equipment,
will be used: bubble sextant, speed and drift indicator, course and
distance indicator, and smoke bombs, the latter being an improved
type. The drift indicator should show (when not in fog) the
drift within two degrees. This is a big factor in air dead-reckon-
ing for it sometimes greatly changes the course and speed. The
(nurse and distance indicator is an instrument which solves the
triangle of forces without resort to mathematics. Knowing the
speed through the air and the drift angle, it is possible to find the
speed over the ground by use of this instrument.
'Editor's Note. An article on this subject by Mr. Littlehales appears
in this number.


  p. 1336 (#252)                      #

1336
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings

COURSE AND DISTANCE INDICATOR
Another method that will be utilized in finding the drift is
effected by having radial lines drawn on the horizontal stabilizer,
five degrees apart, with the position of the observer's eye as a
center. By dropping a smoke bomb and noting on the graduated
radial lines the angle at which the smoke shows up aft the angle of
drift is ascertained.
FOOD
This article would not be complete without mention of the food
to be carried to the base on the Polar Sea. Lieutenant Com-
mander J. R. Phelps, Medical Corps, U. S. Navy, has made an
exhaustive study of food values with special consideration given
to the great limitation of weight-carrying in aircraft. The object
was to supply the proper proportions of proteins, fat, carbohy-


  p. 1337 (#253)                      #

1925)
1337
Flying Over the Polar Sea
drates, and vitamines needed by the human body to make possible
a carefully balanced diet with regard to actual experience over a
period of many years in the Navy. The great Arctic food is
pemmican, which consists of 53 per cent dried beef, 31.5 per cent
oleo oil, 9.5 per cent raisins, and 6 per cent sugar. Lieutenant
Commander Phelps has worked out a diet that is undoubtedly
much superior to the pemmican diet, though pemmican is included.
He concluded that five thousand calories per man per day would
be needed for the work in hand.
Two months' food will be taken to the base on the Polar Sea
for the seven or eight men who will be there. There follows a list
of the food that will be taken. Dr. Phelps' analysis of the calories
is also given.
TABLE AND REMARKS BY LIEUTENANT COMMANDER
PHELPS, (M.C.), U. S. NAVY
CONDIMENTS
Salt ..............1 lb. ............. for 7 men for 10 days
Pepper ...........I OZ.............. for 7 men for 10 days
Celery salt .......8 oz...... ...... for the expedition
Onion salt ........8 oz.............. for the expedition
Cloves, powdered ..2 oz.............. for the expedition
Cod Liver Oil.—It might be well in order to be further protected against
dietary troubles to take along one gallon of cod-liver oil.
Total
cal.
ories
15,599.4
49.093.7
24,936.9
46,395.2
The Arctic RATION AND ITS CALORIC VALUE
Weight Calories Calories Calories
pounds protein fat carbohy.
7 men
drate
10 days
Flour ....
...10.0 1.852.3 490.3 13,256.8
Pilot bread ..........
....28.0 5,644.1 5,720.4 37,729.2
Bacon, medium fat ....
8.5 1,528.2 23,408.7 ........
Whole milk powder ...... .......20.0 9,712.0 22,881.6 13,801,6
(Merrell-Soule Co.)
Navy Beans ........
3.5 1,430.1 257.4 3,788.2
Cracked wheat or oatmeal ........ 3.5 1,023.3 1,029,7 4,290.3
Chocolate .........
3.5 819,6 6,964.6 1,925.8
American full cream cheese
3.5 1,646.2 4,819.4 152.6
Pemmican .......
.....70.0 26,695.2 103,824.0 17,164.0
Paoli tomato paste ......
..2.25 224.7 230.0 980.6
Orange and lemon
.6.0 166.7 115.2 10,329.4
(Merrell-Soule Co.)
Powdered orange 4 lbs.
Powdered lemon 2 lbs.
...
5,475.7
6.343.3
9,710.0
6,618.2
147,683.2
1,435.3
10,611.3


  p. 1338 (#254)                      #

1338
[Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
........... 3.0
1,353.5
........
1,353,5
Vegex
(Vitamin Food co.)
Butter, tinned ...........
Sugar ...................
Tea ................
Coffee ..............
127.1
24,311.7
15.0
24,438.8
27.240.0
21
......
27,240.0
2.0
.. 5.0
52,223.0
13.85:1,
194,053.0
51.48%
130,658.5
34,66%
376,934.5
Calories
per man
per day
5.384.78
SUMMARY
The Ration Including Pommican
Protein
Fat
Carbohydrate
Total calories
calories calories
calories
per man per day
13.85%
51.48%
34.66%
5,384.78
211 lbs.
Weight = - 0 = 3,01 lbs. per man per day
70
Protein = 186.51 grams per man per day
Los
Protein
calories
25,527.8
11.14%
The Ration Without Peminican
Fat
Carbohydrate
calories
calories
90,229.0
113,494.5
39.36%
49.50%
Total
calories
229,251.3
Calories per
man per day
3,275.02
Weight = 2.01 lbs. per man per day
Protein = 91.17 grams per man per day
Pemmican 1 lb. per man per day
Protein
calories
Carbohydrate
calories
Fat
calories
1.483.20
70.30%
Total
calories
2,109.76
381.36
18.08%
245,20
11.62%
Protein = 95.34 grams per man per day
Someone else might have approached this problem in a some-
what different manner. Different articles of food might have been
recommended. But, the assumed variables with which we must deal
necessarily limit selection to a few outstanding foods. The caloric value
per pound must be high and the foods chosen must be acceptable to those
who will eat them. It is necessary to assume that little or no cooking may
be possible and that you may have to fall back on high protein and high
fat concentration in case of accident involving a stay through one winter.
At the same time, provision should be made to furnish a list of foods that
will permit a reasonably varied diet consisting of cooked food served
hot, in case everything goes well.


  p. 1338 (#255)                      #


CONVERSION TARIX
PATHOXS TO METERS
Pachen Waars Feshow Yours
123
146
16.5
TA
20.3
21.9
23.8
256
Taimir
PECHORA
RIVER
31.1
329
366
549
712
914
1289
1546
C. Chelyuskin
skoro 8
on
EMPEROR
Topphen
ndel
6
RO
109 vaste
38
Fare Bay
338
Breidis
Snofellsnes
134
BAFF
*
s
220
610
075
33
oss
695
1000
A
C.Adair
Scarper
IOSO
Sligion
Christ
710
1260
.
Neelong
Lake
No.2560


  p. 1338 (#256)                      #



  p. 1339 (#257)                      #

FINDING GEOGRAPHICAL POSITION IN THE
REGION OF THE NORTH POLE.
By G. W. LITTLEHALES
Hydrographic Engineer, Hydrographic Office, Nazy Department,
Washington, D. C. . .
A T THE North Pole, the zenith coincides with the north
A pole of the heavens and hence parallels of altitude coincide
with parallels of declination and vertical or azimuth circles
with hour-circles and meridians of longtitude. The values of the
declination of the sun, moon, and other celestial bodies registered
in the Nautical Almanac are, therefore, for the specified times, the
values of the altitude that these celestial bodies would have above
the horizon of an observer at the North Pole, and likewise, the
specified times indicate the azimuthal direction of the celestial body
with reference to the prime meridian.
The Nautical Almanac is therefore to be regarded as a complete
Altitude and Azimuth Table at the North Pole. It is the realiza-
tion of this fact that teaches a convenient and rapid course of
procedure for finding the Sumner line of an observer in a geo-
graphical position as yet unknown, since the observer, having by
measurement ascertained the altitude of the sun (for instance)
at a given instant by a time-piece keeping the time of the prime
meridian, may at once compare this altitude with the declination
of the sun as registered in the Nautical Almanac with reference
to the given time.
The difference between the altitude thus obtained by measure-
ment and the altitude that the sun would be at the same instant if
the observer was situated at the North Pole is the interval of
latitude between the pole and the Sumner point on the meridian
of longitude passing through the "geographical position” of the
sun at the instant of observation; that is, the meridian correspond-
ing to the Greenwich hour-angle of the sun at the given time


  p. 1340 (#258)                      #

1340
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Through the Sumner point thus specified to the observer by the
mere comparison of the declination and altitude, the Sumner line
passes at right angles to the meridian; it may be drawn on the
chart as a straight line in moderate lengths, but, when circum-
stances require it to be delineated in a great extent, it may be
drawn, with equal convenience and celerity, in its actual curvature,
by means of a template showing the shapes of the Sumner circle,
according to the altitude of the observed body, on the observer's
circumpolar chart. (H. O. Chart No. 2560).
In circumstances that are less restricted by the exactions in
equipment and working space than those that are often imposed
upon operations in the Arctic, the required extent of the Sumner
line may be at once described from the "geographical position”
of the observed celestial body on a stereographic chart projected on
the plane of the equator, as a circular arc whose radius has the
same arc-measure as the zenith distance and must therefore pass
through the Sumner point. This method may be extended to
regions of any degree of remoteness from the pole, provided only
that the limits of the equatorial stereographic chart are such as to
embrace the geographical position of the observed celestial body,
the geographical position of the observer, and the Sumner point
whose co-latitude on the meridian of the observed celestial body is
found by comparing the altitude of the celestial body as obtained
by measurement with the altitude that the body would have if ob-
served at the Pole, as indicated by the declination.
Although in cases where the observer has set one of his watches
to Greenwich apparent time for the day of observation and another
to Greenwich sidereal time, he will probably find himself ready
to make the required solutions with little writing or none, yet, for-
the purpose of illustrating the specific steps that are to be taken
into account, the details are set down in the treatment of examples
as follows:
Example: In the Arctic Zone, July 27, 1925, at Greenwich civil time
6h 06m 20%, by sextant observation the true altitude of the sun's center was
found to be 16° 07'. Required, the Sumner line of position from this
observation.


  p. 1341 (#259)                      #

1925]
1341
Geographical Position at North Pole
Time
G.C.T., July 27, ..........6"06m208
Equation of Time from
Naut. Alm. ............. 6 20
Comparison of Altitude
Alt. at pole (Declination
from Naut. Alm.) ... + 19° 20' 2
Alt. from measurement.. 16 07
G.A.C.T. (from midnight) 6 00 00
3° 13' .2
Polar distance of Sum-
ner point ............
(to be laid off away
from the direction of
the observed body
since the true altitude
is less than the altitude
at the pole: i.e., on the
meridian 90° west
from Greenwich).
Note: The Sumner point, marked A on the accompanying copy of
H. O. Chart 2560, is plotted at an interval of 3° 13.'2 of latitude, on the
opposite side of the pole, from the meridian 6h (90°) west of Greenwich mid-
night, on which the sun is located at the time of the observation; and
through this point the Sumner line is drawn at right angles to the meridian.
Example: Immediately after the observation stated in the foregoing
example, the altitude of the moon's center was found from sextant ob-
servation to be 3° 53'. Required, the Sumner line of position from this
observation :
Time
Comparison of Altitude
G.C.T., July 27 ....... 6h06m208 Alt. at pole (De-
Sidereal Time of oh
clination from
G.C.T. ... ......20 16 37 Naut. Alm.) ..-1° 06'.6.
Cor. for G.C.T. ........ 102 Alt. from meas-
urement ...... 3 53
G.S.T. ................ 2 23 59
R.A. Moon ...........13 00 55 Polar distance of
Sumner point. 459 .6 or 5° oo'
10 36 56 E. (to be laid off
G.H.A. ...............13 23 04 W. toward the di-
(from noon)
rection of the
(Meridian 159° 14' E.
observed body)
from Greenwich)
Note: The Sumner point, marked B on the accompanying copy of
H. 0. Chart 2560, is plotted at an interval of 5° of latitude on the same
side of the pole on the meridian 13h23m048 or 200° 46' west of Greenwich,


  p. 1342 (#260)                      #

1342
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
or 10"36m564 or 159° 14' east of Greenwich, on which the moon is located
at the time of observation, and the Sumner line is drawn, at right angles
to this meridian.
In conclusion, it remains only to point out that the intersection
of the two Sumner lines, defining the geographical position of the
observer, has the advantage of having been brought out upon the
chart itself, where, in fact, it must always be eventually put, in
order to enable the navigator to act upon the information which
it thus affords him in relation to his destination.


  p. 1343 (#261)                      #

Second Honorable Mention, 1925
NATIONAL STRATEGY
By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER H. H. Frost, U. S. Navy
Motto: “War is the sum of all the forces and pressures operative at a
given period."
CHURCHILL.
I. War and National Strategy.---War is the weighing of our
national capacity to exert and resist pressure against that of the
enemy nation or nations.
A war is decided when the national strength or the will to con-
quer of one of the opposing nations or alliances breaks. As there
is no nation, however strong or powerful, whose national strength
will not break if subjected to severe enough pressure for a suffi-
cient period of time, it is necessary that we bring the enemy nation
to the breaking strain before our own nation reaches it.
Due to the very great strain to which the economic forces of a
nation are subjected by modern war, it is not only necessary to
win, but it is extremely desirable to win with as little economic
effort and as quickly as possible. This expenditure of eco-
nomic effort makes such inroads upon our economic strength that
usually many years are required for recovery and sometimes, as
in the World War, the victors are reduced to practically the same
ruinous economic condition as the vanquished. This would not
have been the case had the war been decided in 1915 or 1916. In
addition to economic disaster, a long war similarly makes grave
attacks upon the moral strength of a nation and produces that
unrest and instability, which, after the World War, was as serious
a problem as economic recovery.
In his analysis as to why the allied powers, with their great
superiority of men and resources, did not win except through the
exhaustion of their enemies, Churchill strikes to the root of the
matter. "War,” he says, “which knows no rigid divisions between
French, Russian and British Allies, between Land, Sea and Air,


  p. 1344 (#262)                      #

1344
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
between gaining victories and alliances, between supplies and fight-
ing men, between propaganda and machinery, which is, in fact,
simply the sum of all forces and pressures operative at a given
period, was dealt with piecemeal.”
To break the moral power of the enemy nation, our government
should direct the operations of the following forces against similar
enemy forces in the combinations best designed for exerting and
resisting pressure:
a) The armed forces, including the military and naval services.
b) The economic forces, including the mining and manufactur-
ing industries, the transportation, communication, financial, com-
mercial and agricultural systems, the scientific organizations and
other similar national institutions.
c) The political forces, including the diplomatic service, the
news, publishing, educational and religious systems and the social,
political, labor and fraternal organizations.
These various forces must be used in the most effective com-
binations and along the most advantageous lines in order to exert
the greatest concentrated national pressure upon the enemy nation
and at the same time to raise to the maximum our national capacity
to resist his pressure.
This offensive and defensive use of our armed, economic and
political forces in proper coordination may be called national
strategy, and a thorough knowledge of this subject is the secret
which will win the next war.
National strategy is one of the most difficult and complex of sub-
jects because every action in war of our armed, economic and
political forces affects all the activities of our own and the enemy
nation, and even neutral countries, in a manner and to a degree that
it is practically impossible to estimate in advance with even ap-
proximate accuracy. This interplay of forces with its tremendous
influences upon the course of the entire war is a subject which will
be well worthy of the most careful consideration by our economic
and political leaders, as well as by our military and naval
services.
II. The Development of National Strategy.-National strategy
has changed greatly during the last two centuries. Formerly, the
armed forces played by far the most important part in war, while


  p. 1345 (#263)                      #

1925)
1345
National Strategy
the requirements of the economic and political forces were com-
paratively simple. This was due to the following facts:
a) Both army and navy could then more generally decide a
campaign by battle.
b) But little material was required for the armed forces, and
the principal economic force employed was money, for which
everything, even soldiers and political power, could be bought.
c) Most governments were autocratic and public opinion had
little force. The political forces were therefore small and nations
were influenced by gaining the favor or hatred of a few powerful
persons.
The growth of the modern form of national strategy commenced
with the wars of the French Revolution, was further developed by
the German general staff, and reached its present form in the
World War.
The principal changes in national strategy are the greatly in-
creased importance of the economic and political forces, which,
however, are still distinctly less important than the armed forces.
These changes are due to the following:
a) The technical developments which have favored defensive
tactics on both land and sea to such an extent that it is becoming
more and more difficult to decide a campaign by battle without
first weakening the enemy forces by other forms of pressure.
b) The great increase in the amount of material required by
the armed forces, which requires a corresponding development of
the economic forces.
c) The increased importance of public opinion, which requires
a great upbuilding of political forces, including propaganda sys-
tems, to influence it as well as governmental opinion.
III. Uses of the Armed Forces.-In considering the operations
of the armed forces, they can be divided into three classes, accord-
ing as their primary mission affects :
a) The armed forces of the enemy nation or nations.
b) The economic forces of the nations at war.
c) The political forces of the warring and neutral nations.
Usually, in order to exert the greatest pressure upon all parts
of the enemy nation and to resist its pressure upon us, it is de-


  p. 1346 (#264)                      #

1346
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
sirable to use our armed forces simultaneously in all three of these
main forms of operations. In order, however, to simplify the con-
duct of operations, no particular military, naval or combined force
should be given more than one primary mission. As, however,
every use of our armed forces has widespread influences through-
out the warring and neutral nations, the execution of this mission
usually either automatically or incidentally accomplishes other pur-
poses or tends favorably toward their accomplishment. It is
therefore important, when assigning a primary mission to any task
force, to see if it cannot be so drawn as to permit the operations
of the force to have other favorable influences, which, in some
cases, may be almost as important as the execution of the primary
mission itself. Thus, assuming that the primary mission assigned
von Mackensen for his Serbian campaign of 1915 was the destruc-
tion of the Serbian Army, his operations were so designed as to
accomplish economic and political results perhaps even more im-
portant.
IV. Operations Against the Enemy Armed Forces.—The first
and most important class of operations to be carried on by our
armed forces is strictly military or naval. Our object is to exert
directly the maximum pressure upon the armed forces of the
enemy and to resist that of the enemy armed forces upon ours.
The armed forces are therefore pitted directly against each other
and fight their campaigns to a finish regardless of economic or
political considerations. We think of nothing but fighting and of
inflicting such losses of personnel and material on enemy forces
that we will gain the moral ascendency over them. If this is our
purpose and we wish to accomplish it as quickly as possible it fol-
lows that we should seek out the largest enemy forces to destroy.
We must, therefore, collect the most powerful units of our forces
to accomplish this purpose.
This results in the principal military forces of a nation being
formed into field armies, which have their fronts covered by vari-
ous advanced troops attached to the armies for the purpose of
obtaining information of the enemy and to prevent him from ob-
taining information of our forces. These advanced troops rejoin
the main bodies of the field armies before a battle in order to bring
all of our available forces against the enemy in a concentrated
mass.


  p. 1347 (#265)                      #

1925]
1347
National Strategy
In exactly the same way the principal naval forces are formed
into a battle fleet, which likewise has its front covered by advanced
forces, which we call the scouting fleet, to perform the same duties
as the advanced forces of the field armies. They likewise join the
battle fleet before an action. The battle and scouting fleets are
both equal subdivisions of the United States fleet and operate
directly under its commander-in-chief.
A field army, with its advanced forces, takes for its primary
mission the complete defeat of the enemy field army. A battle
fleet, assisted by its scouting fleet, takes for its primary mission
the decisive defeat of the enemy battle fleet.
V. The Campaign of the Field Army.—Where two nations at
war have common land boundaries, the military forces, and in par-
ticular the field armies, are usually the principal instruments of
warfare. Their primary mission is the decisive defeat of the
enemy field armies. In modern history this principle developed
from the rapid and decisive purely military victories of Napoleon
and Moltke. A close examination of the campaigns of these great
leaders will show:
a) The opposing forces were usually greatly inferior in either
numbers, efficiency or leadership.
b) The technical developments favored offensive tactics, par-
ticularly in the Napoleonic wars.
c) Little or no use was made of permanent or field fortifica-
tions.
d) The forces were too small to form a continuous front.
Where these conditions have not been present rapid and purely
military decisions have seldom been the rule. Even in ancient his-
tory this principle was applicable, for, in contrast to Alexander's
rapid successes, we see Sparta and Athens fighting for thirty
years; Pyrrhus engaging Rome for nine years, and, finally, Han-
nibal holding his grip on Southern Italy for fifteen years, and even
then only relaxing it to defend Carthage.
In the long wars for Dutch independence, due to the equality
between the opposing armies in numbers, efficiency and leadership,
and the extensive use of permanent fortifications, there developed
a military deadlock which was almost exactly similar to that of the


  p. 1348 (#266)                      #

1348
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
western front. The victory of the Dutch was due to their naval
victories and the consequent attacks on Spanish trade.
In the Thirty Years War the principal weapon, after the death
of Gustavus, was hunger; and in the prolonged wars of Marl-
borough and Eugene not even their great series of victories was
able to win a strictly military decision.
In the Seven Years War the genius of Frederick and the effi-
ciency of his armies were balanced against the superior numbers
of the enemy coalition; in the end it was only political events which
allowed him to retain his hold on Silesia and obtain an even break
after seven years of continuous fighting.
Our Civil War resulted in another protracted struggle in which
economic pressure, exerted through the Navy, greatly assisted our
field armies in winning their decision.
Before the World War von der Goltz predicted that "it was ab-
solutely certain that in a future war events would not march with
anything like the rapidity" of the campaigns of 1866 and 1870.
While it might have been possible for the Germans to have gained
a decisive military success in the French campaign of 1914, this
is now beginning to appear more and more doubtful. Two great
armies, when their morale is unbroken, tend to reach a state of
equilibrium. As an army advances its numbers and equipment
decrease and friction and exhaustion reduce its effectiveness. A
retreating army, as long as its morale remains unbroken, increases
its numbers and equipment by throwing in its reserves and has
all the technical advantages of the defensive. Even admitting
German mistakes the allied armies in any event must have been
considerably superior on the Marne in September, 1914, in both
numbers and equipment, in addition to having the advantage of
resting their flanks on the two great fortresses of Verdun and
Paris. For these reasons it is beginning to appear more and more
improbable that the Germans could have decided the war in 1914.
Admiral von Tirpitz seems to have sensed this at the time and
recommended that the Channel ports be seized early in the advance.
While it is believed that the Germans were correct in endeavoring
to destroy the French Army, still, as it actually resulted, it would
have been advantageous for them had they followed his suggestion.
Once the lines were established on the western front, the in-
creased value of the defensive allowed greatly inferior forces con-


  p. 1349 (#267)                      #

1925)
1349
National Strategy
tinually to throw back the great allied offensives of 1915 with far
greater losses to the attackers than the defenders. The allied
losses, as stated by Churchill, were often twice and sometimes
three times as great as the German.
In February, 1916, the Germans returned to the offensive in a
particularly well-conceived operation. We are coming to see that
the Battle of Verdun was one of the most effective, if not the most
effective, of the offensive actions on the western front prior to
1918. A leading allied authority admits that the Germans came
within a reasonable distance of winning a decision and that it at
least saved the situation for them on the western front by breaking
up the great combined offensive planned on twice the scale of the
Somme Battle. While it adversely affected the morale of both
armies, as do all battles of attrition, it undoubtedly reduced that
of the French far more than that of the enemy. Finally, it is
admitted that the French losses were probably in excess of the
German, an usual feature of an offensive battle of attrition, due
to the favorable tactical position of the Germans. Nevertheless,
the failure of the Germans to win a decision, combined with the
break-through of the Russians, caused the retirement of General
von Falkenhayn.
The real effects of the Somme offensive will never be decided.
The British claim that it did much to break the morale of the Ger-
man soldier. Ludendorff freely admits the anxiety with which he
watched the course of the battle and it is perfectly true that his
army was reduced to a dangerous condition, but with an inferiority
on the western front of five to nine this was to be expected, con-
sidering the fact that his troops had already fought a heavy action
at Verdun and that he was being attacked by a greatly superior
force of fresh troops with an extraordinarily heavy artillery sup-
port. Even at that, his tired troops were able to hold up for
moderate gains the British attack of September 15, which was
made in good weather with a four to one superiority of infantry,
a more numerous artillery, practical supremacy of the air, the
advantage of using the tank as a surprise weapon and the ability
to exploit initial successes by means of a great mass of cavalry.
In the midst of the action Ludendorff was able to spare four of
his divisions for the eastern front.


  p. 1350 (#268)                      #

1350
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
But if Ludendorff was compelled to admit that his army was
completely exhausted at the end of the year and that its fighting
power had decreased, on the other hand the French and British
political leaders had lost all confidence in their military leaders.
Joffre and Foch were relieved from command at the front; Haig
was placed under the direction of the new and inexperienced
French commander. “No more Sommes," was the watchword of
the allied politicians.
For 1917 the plan on the western front was for the British to
make a powerful preliminary attack in front of Arras, while
Nivelle broke through along the Aisne. The first British attacks
proved excellent and drew German reserves, but Nivelle's great
attack broke down completely; he was dismissed; Petain was
brought in to restore the broken morale of the troops and the
word was issued to limit all operations to local attacks. In the
meantime the Battle of Arras died down with several costly re-
pulses, having achieved no strategical objectives.
So costly was the effect of the French failure that Ludendorff
was able to send six divisions from the western to the eastern front
where they played an important part in the great counter-attack in
July.
In June the British carried out the completely successful local
operation at Messines as a prelude to their Flanders offensive.
The effects of this terrific battle of attrition, like those of the
Somme, will always be a matter for argument. Again the Ger-
mans were practicaly exhausted and could withdraw only four divi-
sions from the western front for their Fourteenth Army at
Caporetto. On the other hand, the British politicans would not
provide the drafts to make up the enormous wastage of their divi-
sions and this was largely responsible for their defeats the next
spring. A member of the government, when informed that more
men were needed in France, replied "But when we find the men
they are lost." This feeling led the politicians to send the available
troops to Mesopotamia or Palestine, where they could have no
effect on the course of the war, in 1918 at least, or to retain them
in England.
The attack and counterattack at Cambrai showed that attacks
were becoming more effective, due to the thinning of the battle
lines, the exhaustion and moral breakdown of units, and also to


  p. 1351 (#269)                      #

1925]
1351
National Strategy
improved methods of attack. The French proved that carefully
planned local attacks could almost always be carried through suc-
cessfully, but their actions had no strategical effect.
The operations of 1918 showed the exhaustion of the opposing
armies and the greater possibilities of the attack under the more
favorable conditions. In the actions of March 21 and May 27 the
Germans were able to break through and exploit their successes
to a most unexpected degree but could not gain a decision. It was
their last throw. Political and economic weaknesses, together
with the arrival of over 2,000,000 fresh troops on the western
front, were the underlying causes of their downfall. Notable ex-
ploits of the allied leaders and troops contributed to the result.
The German Empire slowly collapsed under the finely coordinated
operations of the armed, economic and political forces of the allies.
On the eastern front the greater lengths of the battle lines 're-
duced the density with which the front could be held and gave the
attacker far more chance of success. Russian superiority in num-
bers and the incomparable bravery of their troops could not
counterbalance German superiority in leadership, efficiency and
material; but even then the Germans, despite great tactical vic-
tories, could not win a strategical decision. Although they did
exert most powerful military pressure on Russia, her collapse was
due to political and economic effects as much as military defeats.
As an example, Ludendorff, at the request of the German Chan-
cellor, suppressed the news of the German victory on the Stochod
in April, 1917. Although this victory showed the weakness of the
enemy, he forbade for some time any attacks on the Russians for
political reasons, and authorized the preparations for the final
attack of July only when it became apparent that the Russians re-
quired one more military defeat.
On the Italian front an overwhelming military success, itself
effected largely by propaganda, could not win a decision, although
it reestablished the Austrian Army and compelled the French and
British to stiffen the Italian front with eleven divisions at the
expense of a more important theater.
It was only where a lesser power, Belgium, Serbia, or Roumania,
was attacked that a purely military decision could be won, although
even here brilliant leadership was usually necessary to supplement
superior resources.


  p. 1352 (#270)                      #

1352
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
From the above facts it may be deduced that when a great power
is at war with a small power it will probably still be possible to
win a purely military decision by destroying the enemy field
armies; but when great nations are at war with approximately
equal military forces it will seldom be possible to win a purely
military decision.
In any case, it would appear to be the correct policy to strike
first with full force in the attempt to win a rapid military decision
before the fronts are stabilized. Failing to accomplish this, we
should then endeavor to form our battle lines as far to the front
as possible in order to secure, to use a naval term, the control of
the greatest possible amount of enemy territory and to confine the
operations of the enemy field armies to as restricted areas as pos-
sible, denying him, insofar as possible, areas of industrial and
economic importance. It is interesting to note that this is how
Frederick, in 1778, said he would act if he ever had to fight again.
We should then carry out such offensive operations as may be
possible in order to wear down the enemy by constant pressure and
limited offensives, but only in such tactical situations that the rela-
tive losses, both moral and material, will be to our advantage. We
must always be ready to seize the opportunity for an attack in
full force whenever the opposing field armies have been so re-
duced in physical and moral strength that there is a good prospect
of decisive success.
VI. The Campaign of the Battle Fleet.—Where the two op-
posing nations have no common land boundaries, the navy will
usually be the principal instrument of warfare, particularly in the
first stages of the war. As in military strategy, it is naturally
desirable to endeavor first to defeat the main forces of the hostile
navy. For this purpose the most powerful units, supported by all
of the smaller units necessary for fighting a fleet action, are formed
into a battle fleet. The duties of the advanced forces in scouting
and screening for such a fleet are so varied and important as to
warrant the formation of a scouting fleet which, in our Navy, op-
erates directly under the commander-in-chief of the United States
fleet. Our battle fleet, assisted by the scouting fleet, endeavors to
locate, bring to action and destroy the enemy battle fleet ; but if
at certain periods of history the decisive defeat of the enemy field
army has been a difficult accomplishment, that of the battle fleet


  p. 1353 (#271)                      #

1925)
1353
National Strategy
has been even more so. This is due to the special circumstances of
naval warfare which allow an enemy fleet to decline action by re-
maining in a defended port or so close to it that an assured line
of retirement is always available. This means that a fleet action
could take place only:
a) When both fleets were willing to fight, or
b) One was lured to sea and its retreat cut off, or
c) It was forced out of port by pressure other than that exerted
by our battle fleet.
Due to these facts, fleet actions have rarely occurred, and of
these very few have been decisive. Such as have been, were won
over very inferior opponents and even then only after protracted
campaigns. They have not generally had the same immediate
effect upon the course of the war as great military victories which
have permitted the occupation of enemy countries, but their ulti-
mate effects have been almost as decisive.
The ability of an inferior fleet to avoid action has been increased
by the latest developments :
a) Due to the use of torpedoes, mines and smoke screens by
special vessels, it is easier for a fleet to decline, or even to dis-
engage itself, from action.
b) The use of large numbers of submarines and aircraft renders
it more dangerous to attack an inferior fleet in its own waters.
Nevertheless, despite these difficulties, the importance of de-
cisively defeating the enemy battle feet is so great that every
opportunity for action should be seized; in addition, we must en-
deavor in every possible way to bring about and force such oppor-
tunities, which must not be missed just because all the conditions
are not in our favor. These opportunities occur so seldom to a
superior fleet that they should be regarded as absolutely priceless
and distinctly unfavorable battle conditions should be accepted if
necessary.
If an opportunity does not occur to destroy the enemy battle
fleet and cannot be forced at present by any means in our power,
we must then act along the same lines as a field army which is
unable to gain a decision on land. Our battle fleet, assisted by the
scouting fleet, should push its front as far toward the enemy coasts
as it can be maintained in order to secure the control of the great-


  p. 1354 (#272)                      #

1354
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
est extent of sea area possible, in particular that through which
lines of transportation vital to us and the enemy run, and to con-
fine the enemy battle fleet, and, as far as possible, his scouting
fleet, to restricted areas off his own coast or bases, our scouting
fleet and battle fleet taking such dispositions that similar enemy
fleets can initiate important operations outside this restricted area
only with the probability of decisive defeat. In addition, we must
wear down the strength of the enemy battle and scouting fleets
with our light forces, defeat enemy detachments whenever they
come within reach and sweep at irregular intervals through the
area normally controlled by the enemy in the hope of making op-
portunities of inflicting losses on the enemy, as in the action of
Heligoland Bight. And, most of all, we can never know when the
unexpected opportunity to win a decisive victory will be presented
and accordingly we must be ready at all times to seize with the
utmost energy and aggressiveness this heaven-sent opportunity of
ending the campaign.
VII. Cooperation Between the Field Army and the Battle
Fleet.— Usually the field armies and the battle fleet carry on dis-
tinct and separate campaigns, cooperation between them being car-
ried on through the medium of secondary forces. Even when the
war plans are drawn in this way the campaigns of the field army
and battle fleet should be so coordinated that each will give the
other the maximum indirect support. In some cases the battle
ficet, even when operating separately from the field army, should
take for its primary mission the support or assistance of the field
army. It is considered that the high seas fleet had a great oppor-
tunity to assist the German Army during the campaign in France
of 1914. Had it made a threat toward the Channel or the British
coast, or fought even an indecisive action with the grand fleet, it
is very possible that the despatch of the British Expeditionary
Force to France would have been postponed for some time; had
even a partial victory been won over the grand fleet the sailing of
the expedition might have been definitely cancelled. Again, in
1918 the German scouting groups of battle and light cruisers
might have been able to hold up the sailings of our troop convoys
for several weeks by operations in the Atlantic. While these
groups would eventually have suffered heavy losses their sacrifice
might have had decisive effects on the fighting in France. These


  p. 1355 (#273)                      #

1925]
1355
National Strategy
operations of the German naval forces had probably greater
chances of influencing the land campaign than in 1914, for in 1918
both armies were at their breaking strains; the Germans, having
greater reserve power, would have won could our reinforcements
of fresh troops have been even temporarily delayed.
In the same way it is conceivable that a field army should take
for its primary mission the assistance of the battle fleet; if Gen-
eral Nogi's siege detachment be considered a field army we would
have an example of this at Port Arthur. One of the most impor-
tant objects of the costly Flanders offensive in 1917 was the cap-
ture of the Belgian bases; this would have greatly assisted the
British anti-submarine forces and, indirectly, the grand fleet.
In some campaigns the field army and battle fleet will work in
direct conjunction; this is particularly the case where a field army.
attempts to carry through an oversea invasion. Notable examples
are Parma's attempt to invade England in 1588, Napoleon's similar
attempt in 1805, and the Japanese operations in their wars with
China in 1894 and Russia in 1904.
In such campaigns it is believed that either the army or naval
commander should exercise the supreme command, depending
upon the service which has the paramount interest in the actual
operation in progress. This commander should have the power
to assign the tasks for the other service, but not the methods of
execution. This idea has been fully explained by Captain Pye.
As the operations carried on by the combined forces change in
character, the supreme command changes from one service to
another in accordance with which has the paramount interest.
VIII. Operations of the Detached and Control Forces.In
addition to the vessels composing the battle and scouting fleets
there are usually available numerous other more or less obsolete
naval vessels or converted merchant vessels which are not suitable
for use in these organizations. Thus, at the beginning of the
war, Great Britain had a great number of second line vessels, such
as battleships and cruisers, and first line destroyers and sub-
marines; great numbers of merchant vessels were also available
for conversion. These vessels were therefore used for important
subsidiary operations. Sometimes these operations assumed such
importance that first line units-Queen Elizabeth, Princess Royal,
Invincible and Inflexible—were detached from the grand fleet for


  p. 1356 (#274)                      #

1356
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
long periods. In addition, many vessels were constructed especially
for subsidiary operations, particularly monitors and anti-sub-
marine craft.
In the same way, the British had considerable forces of Indian
and South African troops and other partly trained organizations
which were not suitable for use in France. These forces were
therefore used for subsidiary operations and, in fact, these cam-
paigns often became so important that good first line troops were
used in them.
In the Navy we call these secondary forces "control forces,"
because they “exercise” the control of the sea after the battle and
scouting fleets have "secured” this control. Such military forces
will be called, for want of a better name, “detached forces.”
Sometimes these forces may comprise an entire service, as:
a) When the enemy has no battle feet, as in our Civil War.
b) When the enemy's battle fleet has been destroyed, as after
Quiberon Bay, Trafalgar, or the Battle of the Sea of Japan.
c) When we have not sufficient naval forces to form a battle
fleet which would have any chance of operating successfully
against the enemy battle fleet, as in the Revolutionary War and
the War of 1812.
d) When the enemy field army has been completely defeated,
but further pressure is required to bring the enemy to terms, as in
the French occupation of the Ruhr.
e) When we are unable to form a field army of sufficient size
to engage in a land campaign against the enemy field armies, as
was the case of England in the Seven Years War, when the troops
were used for diversions.
When there is a deadlock between the opposing field armies and
battle fleets, as in the World War, it is the efficient use of the de-
tached and control forces which will decide the issue of the war.
They are the reserves which may be thrown in on the fighting,
economic or political fronts in accordance with our estimate as to
where they can be used with the greatest effect. There will always
be such a variety of demands made for their use, and such in-
numerable combinations can be made with them that their skillful
use is a problem more difficult and complex than the comparatively
narrow and strictly military or naval problems of the field army
and the battle fleet.


  p. 1357 (#275)                      #

1925)
1357
National Strategy
The first and most natural use of our detached and control
forces is to assist directly our field army and battle fleet in winning
their campaigns. There are times when a certain detachment of
the control forces, having accomplished its mission, may be with-
drawn to the battle fleet, as were the Princess Royal, Invincible
and Inflexible after the Falklands action. Also, sometimes the
operation in which the detachment is engaged develops so un-
successfully that it must be abandoned; in this case the forces
engaged in it may be withdrawn to the battle fleet or field army, as
were the Queen Elizabeth and the Anzacs from the Gallipoli
campaign.
Sometimes our control or detached forces may be within sup-
porting distance of our battle fleet or field army when a decisive
battle is being fought. In such cases they should forget their pres-
ent duty, march to the sound of the guns and intervene with their
full power. This is what Tyrwhitt wished to do at Jutland. The
Germans ordered all their submarines to the scene of action.
As both branches of the armed forces must be considered as
one instrument for waging war, it is important that each should
furnish the other constant mutual support. We have seen that
in some cases the field army and battle fleet work in direct con-
junction, but it is principally the naval control forces which are
most suitable for affording direct support to the field army and the
detached military forces which can best assist the battle fleet in its
campaign.
These supporting forces may be given more or less permanently
to the other service or may be loaned for a limited period. They
may be placed directly under the orders of the other service or
merely directed to cooperate as may be practicable. In some cases
the supporting forces may be very small; in others they may be
very powerful, as was Nogi's siege detachment at Port Arthur.
The decision as to whether forces of one service should be given
to the other depends upon an estimate as to whether these forces
will be able to contribute more to the operations of our entire
armed forces by acting in conjunction with the other service than
with other forces of its own service. The maintenance of good
feeling between the two services and the moral support afforded
are important considerations which favor a general policy of
mutual support wherever possible.


  p. 1358 (#276)                      #

1358
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
IX. Support of the Field Army by the Naval Control Forces.
-The field army may be supported by the navy in several ways:
a) By the transfer of naval or marine units to the field army.
b) By giving the army naval guns and other equipment with or
without personnel.
c) By assisting military operations by artillery fire from ships.
d) By safely transporting the field army and its supplies to the
theater of operations.
The siege of Antwerp brought into action the naval and marine
units of three nations. A German naval division was probably
the most reliable unit of von Beseler's siege detachment, while one
British brigade of marines and two of seamen contributed some-
what to the prolongation of the defense. A French force of 8,000
marines under Rear Admiral Ronarc'h was enroute to Antwerp,
but, failing to arrive in time, distinguished itself at Dixmude,
where it lost eighty per cent of its strength.
All the field armies were greatly assisted by the navies in the
supply of long range guns and other equipment. Early in the
war the British Navy organized considerable forces of armored
trains, armored cars, and aircraft which operated from the Channel
ports against the forces covering the right flank of the German
army. After the fall of Antwerp all these forces were given to
General Rawlinson. The British Navy was also largely instru-
mental in developing the tank and the methods of using poison
gases. As early as January, 1915, Sir John French urgently re-
quested the use of the 15-inch howitzers being prepared by the
Navy. Rear Admiral von Usedom, in command of the coast de-
fenses of the Dardanelles, furnished large numbers of howitzers
and guns to supplement the weak artillery of the Fifth Turkish
Army defending the Gallipoli Peninsula. The German Navy fur-
nished the naval guns from which the long range guns for the
bombardment of Paris were built. Our Navy supported the field
army with a battery of five 14-inch railway guns.
On a number of occasions the guns of naval vessels have fur-
nished excellent artillery support for the field army, particularly in
the operations along the Belgian coast in the fall of 1914 before
the Germans had been able to develop their powerful coast defense
batteries.


  p. 1359 (#277)                      #

1925]
1359
National Strategy
The British Navy played an extremely important part in the
assembly of the field army from Great Britain, Australia and
Canada on the western front and later the British and United
States Navies performed a similar duty in transporting our army
to France. The actual transportation of the troops is a duty of
the naval transportation service, but the escort and protection of
the troops and supplies enroute is a function of the control forces.
X. Support of the Battle Fleet by Detached Military Forces.
--Assistance of the battle fleet by detached forces will usually take
the following lines:
a) The use of an expeditionary force to seize and hold bases
for the fleet.
b) The attack of an expeditionary force or siege detachment
upon the base of the enemy battle fleet in order to force it to sea.
c) The intervention of shore based aircraft in an action between
battle fleets.
Due to the fact that both battle fleets operated from their home
bases, there were no instances of expeditionary forces seizing
bases for them in the World War. Unfortunately, the British
plan to seize Borkum for an advanced base was abandoned after
the declaration of war. This form of operations, however, is of
well recognized importance in an oversea campaign.
The campaign of Shafter's army against Santiago and Nogi's
army against Port Arthur were both directed primarily against
the hostile fleets in those ports. In the first case the fleet was
forced to sea and destroyed; in the second it was partly broken
up in the action of August 10 and finally destroyed by the guns of
the Japanese siege detachment. The attacks of the Italians on the
Isonzo front were, partly directed at the Austrian battle fleet in
Pola.
In future campaigns shore-based aircraft, particularly fighting
and bombing planes, attached to either the army or navy, will be of
great assistance should an enemy battle fleet venture into an area
which can be reached by large numbers of such planes, either by
intervening in a feet action or by wearing down the enemy's
strength by unsupported attacks. The shore based air forces
within their radius of action will usually be superior to any which
can be flown from ships, and this fact, together with the increased


  p. 1360 (#278)                      #

1360
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
effectiveness of the submarines, practically prohibits an attack in
force on the coast of a powerful nation. This, however, has sel-
dom been a practicable operation and is not necessary for winning
the decision in a naval campaign; other methods of using a naval
force to exert strong pressure on the enemy, such as reduction of
outlying possessions and economic blockade, are practicable with-
out bringing our battle fleet within range of the main air forces
of the enemy.
XI. Indirect Support of the Field Army and Battle Fleet by
Secondary Forces. In addition to directly supporting the field
army and battle fleet the detached and control forces may afford
indirect support by operating along separate lines, the forces not
being attached to the field army or battle fleet or operating in con-
junction with them. These operations take the following forms:
a) Destruction of forces separated or detached from the field
army or battle feet.
b) Diversions to weaken the enemy field army or battle fleet.
c) Attacks by light forces on the enemy battle fleet.
Most of these operations require the closest cooperation between
the two services and by means of them each service can utilize its
excess forces to assist the other service. In many cases combined
military and naval forces can be used most effectively. A general
practice should be made of detailing forces, even very small ones,
from one service to the other, because such forces usually will be
able to afford support out of all proportion to their own strength.
The Dardanelles and Mesopotamian campaigns show this coopera-
tion between the two services in its best form.
XII. Destruction of Isolated Detachments.—Often in war,
portions of the enemy forces become separated from their field
army or battle feet in such situations that we may organize special
forces to destroy them.
In naval warfare opportunities to attack isolated enemy forces
occur most frequently at its beginning before the enemy has time
to concentrate his forces. In 1904 the Japanese were able to
destroy a light cruiser and gunboat at Chemulpo and to isolate
a cruiser division in Vladivostok, thus weakening the Russian
battle fleet based on Port Arthur. In 1914 the British had an op-
portunity to destroy the Goeben and Breslau and thus weaken the
high seas fleet by the loss of two important units.


  p. 1361 (#279)                      #

1925)
1361
National Strategy
In land warfare the opportunity to destroy detached forces oc-
curs most frequently when portions of the field army are left
behind to assist in the defense of fortresses. There were numerous
examples of this in the World War and in 1870 Bazaine's entire
field army was swept into and destroyed at Metz. This form of
operations has a number of advantages:
a) It reduces the forces available to the enemy field army and
battle fleet. The German naval forces on foreign station at the
beginning of the war-one battle cruiser, two cruisers, seven light
cruisers—represented quite a reinforcement for the high seas feet.
In the same way the heavy losses in prisoners and guns occasioned
by the fall of fortresses reduced the strength of the field armies.
b) Such successes are usually assured, due to our superiority
of force, and are often cheaply bought, due to the enemy's knowl-
edge that ultimate victory is practically impossible. There are,
however, some notable exceptions, such as the famous sieges of
Ostend, Genoa and Port Arthur and the remarkable defense of
German East Africa, one of the great exploits of history.
c) Important military or naval advantages will often be gained,
particularly in opening up and securing lines of communication
and transportation, as at Liege and the Falklands action.
d) Economic and political advantages may be gained, as at
Tsingtau.
These operations, however, have the serious disadvantage that
they usually require a superiority of force and to carry them out
we may be compelled to weaken our more essential forces at a
critical time. Where the operation can be quickly decided, such
a weakening of our main forces is justifiable, especially if the
secret is well kept. The Germans did not know that two battle
cruisers had been detached from the grand feet until the results of
the Falklands action were announced and they probably never
knew of the detachment of the Princess Royal. However, if
Sturdee had not had such extraordinary luck in meeting von Spee
so quickly, the loss to the grand fleet of three important first line
units for a protracted period would have been a somewhat serious
one. In some circumstances superiority of force is not required
in these operations. A most spectacular example was von Beseler's
capture of Antwerp with a miscellaneous collection of reserve,


  p. 1362 (#280)                      #

1362
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Landsturm and naval units operating against a force double his in
strength and sheltered by the second strongest fortress in Europe.
XIII. Diversions.-A diversion is usually a most satisfactory
form of operation for temporarily reducing the strength of the
enemy's field army or battle fleet. First, a diversion requires only
small forces. In naval warfare even a single ship, as for example
the Emden, Karlsruhe or Moewe, can create a most successful
diversion. On November 5, 1914, the Germans had at large but
five ships, of which two were armored; to run down this force the
British were actually using about thirty ships, of which twenty-one
were armored, not counting large Japanese and French forces and
armed merchantmen. Second, our force, having the advantage of
initiative, surprise, and the choice of a large number of objectives,
can usually inflict considerable military, naval, economic and po-
litical losses on the enemy. Third, in case our force should hit a
weak spot, it can often be reinforced and changed into an impor-
tant operation, which actually happened at the Dardanelles.
Fourth, the enemy usually is required to employ greatly superior
forces to meet our attack; he must guard a great number of pos-
sible objectives and must always be ready for a repeated attack in
the same place. Fifth, a diversion does not require that our force
be successful or even heavily engaged, although, of course, its
results will be greater if this be the case. Diversions may be
made by:
a) Military forces, as in the Turkish attack on the Suez Canal
and that against the Persian oil fields.
b) Naval forces, as in the first attack on the Dardanelles and
the Ostend operation of August, 1914.
c) Combined forces, as in the attacks on Rochefort and Cher-
bourg in the Seven Years War.
The Turkish attack on the Suez Canal, although made by very
small forces which failed most completely in their attempt to in-
jure the canal, was really a most successful diversion, largely be-
cause of the great importance of its objective. This induced the
British to retain large forces in Egypt and to undertake the highly
unprofitable Palestine campaign, tying down for several years an
army, which ultimately reached 270,000 men, exclusive of fol-
lowers, while the Turkish Army was a fraction of this figure. In


  p. 1363 (#281)                      #

1925]
1363
.
National Strategy
:
the same way a small force of Turks and Arabs attacked the Brit-
ish oil fields in Persia and the pipe lines along the Karun River;
this drew two gunboats and an entire brigade.
The first stage of the Dardanelles attack actually was designed
to create a diversion to assist the Russians. It succeeded in draw-
ing six Turkish divisions to the Dardanelles. While this was an
excellent diversion from the Russian viewpoint, it was not so
favorable when it was decided to change the diversion into an
attack in force.
At the end of August, 1914, the British Navy concentrated a
considerable force in Ostend and landed a brigade of 3,000 ma-
rines. This created a powerful diversion and according to General
Dupont was the culminating element in the German decision to
withdraw from the Marne.
The use of combined forces for diversions was one of the prin-
cipal elements of Pitt's strategy in the Seven Years War. The
attacks on Rochefort and Cherbourg were designed to draw off
troops from the German front and, although they had very slight
actual success, they had excellent strategical results. In the Civil
War combined federal forces at Fort Monroe drew off Long-
street's corps of 15,000 men from Lee's army and compelled him
to fight the Battle of Chancellorsville against great odds.
When an operation can at the same time crush an enemy force
and act as a diversion, it is particularly effective. One of the best
examples of this was von der Goltz's counter-attack on Town-
shend's army and its ultimate capture at Kut. Not only was a
distinct victory won, but the necessity for the British to regain
their moral losses and prestige in the East compelled them to mass
an army which ultimately grew to 280,000 troops, exclusive of
followers, to carry on a campaign whose small results were alto-
gether out of proportion to the forces used. The German-Austrian
attack on Italy in 1917 not only inflicted the heaviest losses on the
Italians, but forced the British and French to use their scanty
reserves to stiffen the Italian front to their own cost in March,
1918. Although made largely for political reasons the German-
Austrian attack on Serbia in 1915 practically destroyed the Serbian
army and drew from the western front great numbers of French
and British troops. In 1918 the army based on Salonica num-
bered, including Greeks and Serbians, 630,000 men, exclusive of


  p. 1364 (#282)                      #

1364
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
followers. In addition all the equipment for the Greeks and Ser-
bians had to be furnished by the British and French, and the
Italians had to give two divisions to furnish a front in Albania.
XIV. Attacks of the Light Forces. Our control forces will
often be able to attack important units of the enemy battle and
scouting fleets. Submarines are particularly effective for such
attacks. British submarines torpedoed at various times two battle-
ships and two battle cruisers. Minelayers were also effective; the
Audacious and other important units were lost as a result of their
operations. Shore-based bombing and torpedo planes, both mili-
tary and naval, will be a constant menace to enemy forces ven-
turing near their bases.
XV. Operations Affecting the Economic Forces.—Having
considered the primary missions of our military and naval serv-
ices, that is, the decisive defeat of the enemy field army and battle
fleet, and also those operations of the detached and control forces
which are intended to assist our field army and battle fleet in their
campaigns, both directly as a part of these main forces and in-
directly in distinct and separate operations, it is now appropriate
to consider the further operations of the detached and control
forces which primarily affect the economic forces of the opposing
nations and thereby indirectly affect all the national forces. These
operations fall into three classes, according as their mission is:
a) To exert pressure on the enemy economic forces.
b) To resist the pressure of the enemy armed forces on our
economic forces.
c) To assist our economic forces.
Our armed forces are designed primarily for use against the
enemy armed forces. Their use against economic forces is an
unnatural one which must be justified by unusual conditions. Such
operations are restricted by the prevalent conception of inter-
national law and usually to be successful involve its violation in
important respects. They also often cause great suffering among
the civil population of the enemy nation and great bitterness
toward us; this will be turned to good account by the enemy. In
many cases, particularly in naval warfare, neutral lives and prop-
erty may be destroyed and this may cause powerful neutrals to
take sides with the enemy or at least assume an attitude of benev-


  p. 1365 (#283)                      #

1925)
1365
National Strategy
olent neutrality. Therefore, in deciding upon operations against
the enemy economic forces, the adverse political effect must be
accepted and steps taken in advance to counteract it.
XVI. Attacks on the Enemy Economic Forces.-In general,
direct attacks on the enemy economic forces are made when:
a) Our naval forces are unable to secure the command of the
sea by operations against the enemy battle fleet and must be used
for missions easier of attainment, in particular attacks on trade.
b) Our naval forces have secured the control of the sea by suc-
cessful operations against the enemy battle fleet, thus permitting
our control forces to exercise that control by exerting pressure on
the enemy economic forces by blockade or similar operations.
c) The enemy is unable to organize a battle fleet, thus allowing
a considerable part of our forces to be used for exerting economic
pressure by blockade.
d) Our military forces, due to the defeat of the enemy field
army, can occupy important economic centers or areas which are
vital to the enemy.
In all these forms of operations more or less contact with the
enemy armed forces must be expected, but these contacts are
merely incidental to the execution of our primary mission, the
attack of enemy economic forces.
In the World War the Germans, realizing that they could not
secure the control of the sea by operations against the grand fleet,
while continuing such operations, used their control forces to
attack the economic forces of the Allies. These attacks took the
following forms:
a) Submarine warfare, including mining, against allied and
neutral trade.
b) Cruiser warfare against trade.
c) Aircraft bombing attacks against industrial centers.
The German submarine offensive produced remarkable results,
both favorable and unfavorable. The direct influence upon the
economic forces of the Allies was so great as almost to decide the
war. These results indirectly influenced the military situation
greatly to the advantage of the Germans, but on the other hand
they had a most unfavorable political result, the entry of the
United States into the war, which in turn changed the military


  p. 1366 (#284)                      #

1366
(Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
situation against the Germans. The question of submarine war-
fare is a balancing of favorable economic, military and naval fac-
tors against the unfavorable political factor. While this form of
warfare was greatly criticized by those who suffered from it and
while it is formally barred by an obscure treaty, it cannot be left
out of consideration in contemplating future naval wars, because,
while such forms of warfare are distinctly out of favor in our
country, we must always count upon its use by an enemy nation, a
fact which is accepted by a leading British naval critic. History
affords no instance of a nation losing a desperate war for its
existence without using every means at its disposal to win and it
is even more doubtful if there will be such cases in the future.
Furthermore, it may be possible under special conditions, as was
the case in the Sea of Marmora, to use it in an area where there
are no neutrals or where it is unnecessary to attack without
warning.
Cruiser warfare against trade is sometimes justified on a small
scale, but more as a diversion or threat than for producing any
important actual results. A limited number of raiders should be
used, because in this way we produce a moderate economic effect,
due to delay of sailings, increase of insurance rates, and deterring
neutral ships from serving the enemy. In addition, it creates a
diversion by keeping in play a large number of enemy cruisers.
The cruises of the Emden, Karlsruhe, Mocue and I'olf are models
for such operations.
The actual effects of the air attacks on industrial centers is
still difficult to estimate. During the war the Allies refused to
admit that any economic or military damage had been done. Dis-
closures since the war tend to show that their effects were quite
important in slowing down work, although the actual damage done
was slight. As military diversions they were extremely effective
and they drew many planes away from the western front for de-
fensive work in which they were practically useless. Their po-
litical effect is doubtful. At first they certainly encouraged
enlistments and had a great propaganda value, but these effects
wore off in time and later in the war the continual attacks must
have had a considerable adverse moral effect. Repington describes
their demoralizing effect upon the British Cabinet.


  p. 1367 (#285)                      #

1925]
1367
National Strategy
When a navy has secured the control of the sea its control forces
may then exert economic pressure upon the enemy by preventing
his merchant vessels from passing through it. They may also
prevent neutral vessels from trading with the enemy either directly
or indirectly by:
a) Blockade of the enemy coast.
b) A system including inspection of cargoes, transference to
the contraband list of all articles and material, and pressure upon
neutrals to prevent enemy destination of goods.
Due to the changed conditions of naval warfare it was imprac-
ticable in the World War to declare a blockade of Germany which
would have any pretense of legality. The British, therefore, built
up a large force of armed merchant vessels to cover the area be-
tween Scotland and Norway to intercept all passing ships. As it
was dangerous because of submarines to inspect the ships at sea,
they were ordered by a new extension of international law to pro-
ceed into inspecting stations. The next step was to make every-
thing absolute contraband, despite the generally prevailing ideas
of international law. All that remained was to prove enemy des-
tination. This being impracticable in the case of goods consigned
to neutral countries, such goods were passed only if the consignee
guaranteed that they would not reach Germany; if this agreement
were broken the firms concerned would be blacklisted and no fur-
ther goods consigned to them would be passed. This system
finally resulted in an effective economic blockade of Germany, and
produced great and almost decisive results. Indirectly it struck
the German army heavy blows from the rear and had much to do
with its eventual breakdown. Its starvation feature, accompanied
by great increases of disease, particularly among the children, as
described by Philip Gibbs, struck a staggering blow at the morale
and will to conquer of the entire German nation. Its political
effects on neutrals were bad, but by skillful diplomacy and prop-
aganda, these were kept within limits, and the British were assisted
by the more apparent violation of international law by the German
submarine offensive.
In the Civil War the inability of the Confederate States to or-
ganize a battle fleet allowed a great part of the federal navy to
be used for legitimate blockade of the Southern States, which


  p. 1368 (#286)                      #

1368
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
greatly influenced the result of the war. The British naval ex-
pedition up the Yangtze in 1842 so effectively cut the Chinese lines
of communications that they were forced by economic losses to
sue for peace.
Military forces may be used directly against the economic forces
of the enemy, but this is seldom their primary mission until the
enemy field armies have been destroyed. The German invasion
of France in 1914 was primarily to destroy the French Army, but
the incidental occupation of the coal and iron mines was a power-
ful blow at the French economic forces.
· After having gained a definite decision over the enemy field
armies the next objective for our military forces becomes the
economic forces of the enemy. Sherman's march from Atlanta and
Sheridan's devastation of the Shenandoah Valley were both direct
attacks on the enemy economic forces. The organization of a
nation is now so strong and complex and the economic forces of
the world are so interwoven that sometimes a military decision will
not in itself bring about the defeat of the enemy nation. In this
case it is necessary to use our military forces directly against the
economic forces of the enemy as the French did in the Ruhr. Such
operations, although apparently successful in this case, are very
costly and their political effects are doubtful. There is a distinct
limit to the penalties which may be imposed upon a defeated nation.
XVII. Defense of Our Economic Forces Against Hostile
Attack.—The second class of operations affecting the economic
forces is the resistance of the pressure of the enemy armed forces
upon our economic forces. As the enemy military forces will be
used for this purpose only after our field armies have been de-
stroyed, we may consider only naval attacks on our economic
forces.
A passive defense will require naval forces far superior to the
enemy attacking forces. Thus the allied forces resisting the Ger-
man submarine warfare were probably twenty times more numer-
ous than the entire German submarine service. The naval forces
used for resisting attack must be taken from the battle or scouting
fleets or produced at the expense of other naval, military or eco-
nomic forces. The allied anti-submarine organization, including
the shipbuilding industries developed, caused a great drain on all
the allied forces.


  p. 1369 (#287)                      #

1925]
1369
National Strategy
For these reasons it is naturally most desirable to organize
counter-blows against the enemy submarine, cruiser and air bases,
as these operations require only small forces compared with those
necessary for a passive defensive. In the World War, although
many plans were laid for the seizure of Borkum and the Belgian
bases, unfortunately very little materialized, except for the partly
successful blocking attacks on Zeebrugge and Ostend in 1918 and
some ineffective long range bombardments and bombing attacks.
Strong naval or combined attacks would appear to have been far
less costly than the terrible losses of the Flanders offensive which
had for one of its most important objects the seizure of the Bel-
gian bases.
Even with strongly organized counter-blows, it must be recog-
nized that some of our control forces must be used for defensive
purposes, notably escort duty. Such forces have a tendency to
grow to an abnormal and unnecessary size, as did our coastal
forces in the World War, which were useless and costly from both
naval and economic viewpoints. A special effort must be made to
keep such forces to an absolute minimum in the next war.
XVIII. Support of Our Economic Forces. Our third mission
in the group affecting the economic forces is that of assisting our
economic forces. This can be accomplished along two general
lines:
a) By using direct naval or military operations to obtain raw
material or to open up a route for the delivery of finished material.
b) By cooperation with the economic forces in their develop-
ment, maintenance, and operation.
The first line of action is a function of the detached and control
forces. On several occasions during the war military detached
forces were used for the purpose of obtaining raw material. One
example was the German expedition into the Ukraine to obtain
wheat. The necessity for obtaining food and oil was one of the
main reasons for the German offensive against Roumania, although
the primary reason was to destroy the Roumanian army and
shorten the front. This campaign also opened up the Danube as
a line of communications. One reason for the attack on the Dar-
danelles was to obtain food from Russia. The German Navy
assisted in the building of the U-Deutschland, which obtained val-
uable raw material in the United States.


  p. 1370 (#288)                      #

1370
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Two of the main currents in the World War developed from
the necessity for opening up routes for the delivery of finished
material to allied nations temporarily cut off by enemy forces and
neutral nations from their source of supply. These were:
a) The efforts of Germany to supply Turkey which resulted in
von Mackensen's drive through Serbia and the establishment of
a direct line of communication from Berlin to Constantinople.
b) The attempts of France and Great Britain to supply Russia
through the Dardanelles, the White Sea, Vladivostok and the
Baltic.
A most interesting series of attempts was made by the Germans
to supply their forces in East Africa, including one long airship
flight.
The second line of action is a function of the administrative
bureaus and officers of the War and Navy Departments. We of
the Army and Navy depend to a great extent upon the backing
which the economic forces give us. They can only be properly
developed and maintained for war purposes if we assist them with
our cooperation. The following are some of the lines along which
we can help:
a) By assisting the development of our industrial system dur-
ing peacetime. In the past we have done very much to assist our
steel, engineering, electrical, shipbuilding and other activities,
which are essential to us in war. This assistance should be both
technical and financial. Churchill takes great pride in having kept
alive the Coventry Ordnance Works, which comprised one third of
England's capacity for making guns, by assigning them contracts
in 1913.
b) By determining in advance the requirements of the army
and navy and having tentative contracts arranged to be filled at the
declaration of war. Von Tirpitz had made arrangements before
the World War by which the usual peacetime contractors would
be required greatly to increase their contracts in the event of war
during the period of their effectiveness.
c) By cooperation in purchases between the army and navy
and other governmental departments.
d) By deciding in advance the merchant vessels to be allotted
to the army and navy. The navy preferably should operate all
such ships.


  p. 1371 (#289)                      #

1925)
1371
National Strategy
e) By so regulating the draft procedure that there will be the
most suitable distribution of the nation's manpower among the
armed and economic forces.
f) By eliminating unnecessary demands upon the economic
forces.
g) By endeavoring to reduce the dislocation of our peacetime
industries insofar as possible, so our business prosperity will con-
tinue.
Finally, we must again remember the tremendous strain that war
makes upon our economic forces, and that it is not only our mis-
sion to win the war, but to win it as quickly as possible and with
the least drain on our economic forces. This is particularly the
case in a war of exhaustion which is prolonged to such an extent
that the victors are little better off than the vanquished. Rather
than prolong a war to such an extent, where only a Pyrrhic vic-
tory can be won, it is considered proper to force a decision even
if our chances of victory are thereby somewhat reduced. In other
words, we should never be satisfied to win a war as the World
War was won. An alliance with practically double the fighting
forces and economic resources of its enemy should not be content
to win by mere exhaustion after over four years of the costliest
national effort.
XIX. Operations Affecting the Political Forces. The de-
tached and control forces are available for a third general class of
operations, those affecting the political forces. Such operations
usually at the same time exert political pressure upon the enemy,
resist the pressure of the enemy armed forces on our political
forces, and assist our political forces in the execution of their war
mission. Incidentally, they involve contact with the enemy armed
and economic forces, but these are not their primary objectives.
In the first place, it must be distinctly recognized that the field
armies and battle fleet should not be used directly for political
purposes. Their mission is to win their respective campaigns and
by doing so they will indirectly create the greatest political in-
fluence. The Kaiser would not allow the high seas fleet to accom-
plish its only legitimate mission by engaging the grand fleet,
reserving it for use as a "political instrument.” It accomplished
nothing along these lines, but as a "naval instrument,” it might


  p. 1372 (#290)                      #

1372
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
then, and later did, have important effects on the course of the war.
The use of military and naval forces for political effect is usually
justifiable only when comparatively small forces are required to
accomplish this mission. It is extremely dangerous to detach large
forces from duty against the main forces of the enemy, where it
is known that they will have a definite military or naval effect, in
order to influence a very uncertain political situation, where they
may have no effect or even an unfavorable one. An example of
this was General Townshend's attack on Bagdad, which was made
mostly for political effect. Had he been successful great political
results would have been won, but when, despite his brilliant leader-
ship and the bravery of his troops, his entire detachment was cap-
tured at Kut, this produced exactly the opposite effect and the
British became involved in operations on a large scale in an un-
important theater of war. In general, forces may be used in the
following ways for political effect :
a) To induce a neutral nation to enter the war on our side or
to prevent one from joining the enemy.
b) To incite revolts or create disturbance in the enemy country.
c) To occupy enemy territory to improve our claims at the peace
conference.
d) To improve the political situation by winning some minor
but striking success of little actual military or naval importance.
XX. The W’inning of Neutral Support.- Naturally, the first
class of operations is by far the most important and here we will
often find great opportunities for winning important results with
small forces. In the World War we have the classic example of
the Goeben and Breslau ; these two ships contributed greatly to the
entry of Turkey into the war in accordance with her secret treaty
of August 2, 1914; they won a political victory which indirectly
liad as important results from military and naval viewpoints as
could have been gained by a succession of great battles. Turkey
and later Bulgaria held in play well over a million allied troops,
whose supply strained the transportation service and its protective
forces to the utmost limit.
One of the greatest problems of the British political forces was
to bring Italy into the war. That they should have been able to
accomplish this at the very time the Russians were being so badly


  p. 1373 (#291)                      #

19251
1373
National Strategy
beaten on the eastern front was a great feat; the British armed
forces used two measures to support their political forces :
a) The landing attack on the Gallipoli Peninsula to induce Italy
to enter the war in time for her share in the partition of Turkey.
b) The agreement to support the Italian Navy with four sec-
ond-line battleships and supplementary light forces, to increase its
chances of controlling the Adriatic.
The Gallipoli attack was also designed partly for its political
effect on Greece, Bulgaria and Roumania; had it succeeded the
Balkan states would have joined the Allies ; even its partial suc-
cess induced Greece to offer to join in the military operations, but
this advantage was vetoed by Russia in the strongest terms. When
the attack failed, Bulgaria could no longer be held back, and even
the offer of 200,000 troops to assist Roumania could not affect
her neutral attitude at this critical time. When later she was won
over, this proved to be to the advantage of Germany rather than
the Allies.
The agreement of Germany and Austria to support Bulgaria
with eleven divisions led by a famous general was instrumental in
inducing her to join the central powers.
Another political reason for the Dardanelles operation was to
further the British policy of giving encouragement to Russia by
winning Constantinople for her. But even in this respect the
political effect was opposite that intended, for when the British
failed when so near their goal the German propaganda service im-
planted the idea in Russia that the British had abandoned the
expedition to avoid having to turn Constantinople over to the
Russians according to the agreement.
XXI. The Incition of Revolts in Enemy Countries. It has
always been a principle of war to stir up portions of the enemy
population to revolt by furnishing the discontented elements with
troops and supplies. France, in her wars with Great Britain,
always endeavored to land troops in Scotland and Ireland. While
not formally at war with Great Britain during the first part of
the Revolutionary War, her assistance of the American Colonies
was meant as an indirect blow at Great Britain, and when that
country was deeply involved, France entered the war.


  p. 1374 (#292)                      #

1374
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
In the World War it proved more difficult to incite revolts by
the use of military and naval forces; secret agents and propaganda
proved more successful. A German submarine and auxiliary were
used for landing the leaders and supplies for the Irish revolt of
Easter, 1916; the U-35 was instrumental in inducing the Senussi
tribesmen to revolt in Egypt by carrying a Turkish mission and
towing two boats loaded with military supplies for their use; small
British detachments induced the Arabian tribes to throw off their
Turkish allegiance and to operate with the British during the
Palestine campaign.
XXII. The Seizure of Enemy Territory. In most wars in
which an early decision is not reached, attempts are often made by
expeditionary forces, assisted by attached naval forces, to seize
enemy territory for the purpose of retaining such territory per-
manently or of trading it for other considerations at the peace con-
ference. It was in this way that Great Britain built up her empire
at the expense of Spain, Holland, France and Germany. In the
World War there was in addition the element of competition in
the seizure of outlying territory by the allied nations, as it was
realized possession would determine the allotment of the territory
at the peace conference. The seizure of German territory also
served the useful purpose of denying naval bases to the enemy
cruisers at large.
XXIII. Minor Operations for Political Effect.—Sometimes it
is justifiable to use small forces for the purpose of carrying out
an operation which will have a great political effect. Although the
U-Deutschland was sent to the United States for economic rea-
sons primarily, it was such a spectacular feat that it increased
German prestige in our country. The U-53 was doubtlessly sent
to Newport for political effect. Its remarkable cruise, however,
probably had an effect opposite to that intended. The cruise of
the U-51 to Constantinople and the subsequent sinking of two
British battleships had a great political effect. The sinking of the
Goliath by a Turkish destroyer manned by Germans indirectly
caused an open break in the British War Council as a result of
Fisher's ultimatum on the withdrawal of the Queen Elizabeth.
The sending of our first division to France was largely for po-
litical effect.


  p. 1375 (#293)                      #

1925)
1375
National Strategy
The sentimental value of taking Jerusalem, Bagdad and Da-
mascus probably was one of the minor reasons for undertaking
these operations.
We must remember that operations for political effect are only
justified when they can be undertaken by small forces; however,
there are usually opportunities for such action and in many cases
they will be very profitable.
XXIV. Cooperation Between the Army and Navy.—In a
prosecution of a war along the above lines, it is absolutely essential
that there be effective and constant cooperation between the army
and navy. During peacetime we possess such a means of coordina-
tion of effort in the Joint Board and Joint Planning Committee.
In wartime, by the addition of other officers, these organizations
can be readily transformed into a joint staff for directing the op-
erations of the military and naval forces along parallel lines, where
they can afford each other constant mutual support. This pooling
of the combined resources of our Army and Navy will give us an
inestimable advantage over an opponent who operates his army
and navy along entirely separate lines, as was so frequently the
case in the World War.
The Secretaries of War and Navy should be members of a de-
fense council for the purpose of coordinating the maintenance
and preparation of the armed, economic and political forces during
peacetime and their operation during war.
XXV. The Primary Mission and Composition of the Economic
Forces.--The primary mission of the economic forces is to sup-
port the armed forces. In order to do this they must be built up
during peacetime in such a way that they can be mobilized quickly
to meet war conditions. When war comes the greater part of the
economic forces should continue their normal peacetime activities
so as to carry on the national life. A lesser part must be converted
to such war use as may be necessary. In some cases entire indus-
tries must be devoted to war purposes and even greatly augmented,
but in no case should there be a greater dislocation of our economic
forces than is absolutely necessary, for this reduces our financial
stability. An extreme case appears in the wars for Dutch inde-
pendence when Dutch merchant vessels continually traded with
the enemy and even transported Spanish troops; the Dutch author-
ities sanctioned and even encouraged this unusual form of trad-


  p. 1376 (#294)                      #

1376
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ing with the enemy because they believed it the only means by
which they could earn sufficient money to carry on the war.
The economic forces are principally composed of the following:
a) Mining industries, particularly for coal, oil, iron and copper.
b) Manufacturing industries, particularly for munitions, equip-
ment, clothing, machinery, motor cars and airplanes.
c) Overseas transportation services.
d) Inland transportation services, including railways, inland
and coastwise shipping, motor and possibly even air transportation.
c) Shipbuilding industries, for both naval and merchant vessels.
f) Communication services, including radio, cables, telegraphs,
telephones, mail.
g) Financial system.
h) Agricultural system.
i) Commercial system, including its foreign connections.
j) Scientific organizations.
k) Medical profession.
XXVI. Uses of the Economic Forces in the W’orld War.-
There were many familiar examples in the World War of the way
in which these great national industries, systems and organizations
afforded indispensable assistance to the armed forces.
The Germans used to advantage the coal and iron mines of occu-
pied French territory; the oil fields of Roumania, although de-
stroyed by the British, were reopened in time by the Germans to
give them some much needed fuel. Before the war the British
had been able to design the Queen Elizabeth class to burn oil only
by reason of the Admiralty's investment of large sums of money
in the Anglo-Persian Oil Company.
After the first part of the war had demonstrated the inability of
the War Office to furnish sufficient munitions, a special ministry
was formed for this purpose and by mobilizing all the manufactur-
ing plants in England and even many of those in the United States
it was able to supply ammunition and guns on such a scale that
the pressure upon the German armies was greatly increased. In
our country the development of standard designs for airplane
engines, motor trucks and machine guns allowed us to turn out
great quantities of such equipment and simplified both its pro-
cluction and operation. However, the decision on the standard


  p. 1377 (#295)                      #

1925]
1377
National Strategy
design caused considerable delay, and in a future war we should
have the designs ready in advance. The Germans even went so far
as to form an auxiliary service and finally to draft illegally Bel-
gian workmen to assist in its operation.
The British mercantile marine was used for assisting all the
national forces in the World War. Under the supervision of the
navy it made possible the concentration of the field army in France,
it transported expeditionary forces over great distances to their
objectives and maintained their long lines of transportation during
extended campaigns. It assisted in the transport of our army to
France. It transported fuel and supplies for the British navy and
raw and finished material for the other economic forces.
The inland transportation services were also of the greatest
assistance to the armed forces. Not only did they provide supplies
for the field armies, but they contributed directly to many German
successes by the rapid transfer of troops from one front to another
or along lateral lines of communication behind the front in order
to effect a concentration for a break-through. So important were
strategic railways considered that before the war France loaned
large sums to Russia for the purpose of building up the lines of
communications in the Warsaw salient. These so greatly accel-
erated the Russian mobilization and strategic deployment on the
East Prussian frontier that France was repaid many times over
for her financial aid, even though the loans themselves are never
recovered from the Russian government.
The shipbuilding industry played an important part in the first
part of the war in completing the ships under construction and in
rushing through emergency building programs. The British had
detailed plans prepared for completing their ships under construc-
tion and as these ships joined the fleet its margin over the enemy
was so increased that the chances of the Germans winning a de-
cisive feet action were decreased to almost a negligible quantity.
As soon as these ships were completed, work was started on the
Fisher emergency program comprising ships especially designed
for the duties of the control forces. Later in the war the sub-
marine offensive was countered only by using all the facilities of
the British and American shipbuilding industries for building anti-
submarine craft and merchant vessels to replace those destroyed.


  p. 1378 (#296)                      #

1378
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
On the other hand, practically the entire German shipbuilding
industry was used for the production of submarines.
The various communication services were mostly taken over by
the armed forces and proved of the greatest utility for military
and naval operations and for economic purposes; they also were
of assistance to the political forces, particularly the propaganda
systems. Censorship of all forms of communications became a
recognized war duty and it furnished us with much valuable in-
formation in addition to preventing intelligence from reaching the
enemy.
The principal duty of the financial systems of the warring na-
tions was to obtain the funds for the great expenses incurred by
the armed forces and that portion of the economic forces devoted
to war purposes. One of the surprises of the war was the re-
markable strength of the financial forces, despite the predictions
that the cost of the war would bankrupt the nations in six months.
In no case could defeat be attributed to the failure of the financial
systems. It was only after the war that the finances collapsed,
and this was due partly to other causes.
Due to the British food blockade of Germany and the German
submarine blockade of England, agriculture assumed for a time
almost a decisive importance. The failure of the German potato
crop was as great a loss as a defeat on the fighting front. All
Germany was organized for producing food and Russian prisoners
were utilized to great advantage for work in the fields. All occu-
pied territory was cultivated, and frequently troops were used for
gathering crops. Leaves of absence were granted as far as possible
at the harvest time. In addition, rationing organizations were
formed for the distribution of food. Other countries were forced
to follow Germany's example.
The commercial system played an important part in the pur-
chase of supplies and equipment for the armed forces. Connec-
tions in neutral countries proved most important, particularly for
the British who used our country as a source of supplies almost
as effectively, except for price regulation, as though it were their
own territory. Their hold on our economic resources was so
strong that it was only with the utmost secrecy that nickel and
copper could be obtained for the cargoes of the U-Deutschland.
The British commercial organization throughout the world was a
marvel of efficiency, which is worthy of close study.


  p. 1379 (#297)                      #

1925]
1379
National Strategy
All countries found their scientific organizations of the great-
est utility in the invention and design of new instruments of war-
ſare. In addition, the German scientists showed ingenuity in
developing substitute materials to take the place of those cut off by
the blockade.
The possession of a large and efficient medical profession is of
incalculable advantage in wartime. In those countries which had
this advantage, the armies were able to keep their effectives very
high, due to the elimination of sickness and the return of the
wounded to the ranks, while the Balkan nations on the other hand
lost great numbers through sickness and had almost no provision
for caring for the wounded.
XXVII. Minor Missions of the Economic Forces. In addi-
tion to their main mission, the economic forces can perform other
minor functions in war:
a) Resistance to the armed forces, as in the case of the passive
resistance of the Belgians to the Germans and the organized resist-
ance of the German workmen and industrial leaders backed by the
government in the Ruhr. Such resistance has the grave defect
that it weakens our economic forces by the cessation of work.
b) Aggressive action against the enemy economic forces, as, for
example, the black-listing of neutral firms for trading with the
enemy, the refusal to furnish neutral ships with bunker coal un-
less they agree not to trade with the enemy, and an embargo on the
export of coal to neutral nations unless they furnish supplies in
return or agree not to furnish the enemy with supplies.
c) Assistance of our political forces, as, for example, the Anglo-
French loan negotiated in the United States, which welded a
powerful political tie between us and the leading allied nations ;
the war loans to neutral nations granted by the British, which
were practically subsidies for their participation in the war; our
war loans to the allied nations which renewed their political
strength at a critical period.
XXVIII. Organization of the Economic Forces. In order to
operate the economic forces there are needed: personnel, raw
material, money, and transportation. The allotment of these facil-
ities involves many difficult and conflicting considerations and must
be determined on a basis of priority by the defense council, one
member of which should be the "Economic Administrator,” who


  p. 1380 (#298)                      #

1380
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
should have the wartime command of all the national economic
forces.
It is extremely important that the war organization of our eco-
nomic forces be worked out at least along its general lines during
peacetime, so that upon the declaration of war the necessary por-
tions of the economic forces can be mobilized into a great national
organization for carrying out their war mission, while the re-
mainder, so far as possible, carry on the national life of the
country as during peacetime. We will in this way avoid the
uncoordinated efforts of the World War, when our economic or-
ganization was built up little by little without any comprehensive
plan. If we did generally very effective work under this organiza-
tion, how much more could we have accomplished had real eco-
nomic war plans have been available at the declaration of war.
The economic administrator should supervise during war the
Departments of Treasury, Commerce, Agriculture, Labor, Interior
and Justice; the senior cabinet officer of this group should serve
as acting administrator during peacetime and should be responsible
for the preparation of the economic war plans.
Upon the declaration of war it will be necessary to appoint as
administrator one of the leading organizers and business men of
the country who has had wide experience along these lines. Pre-
ferably he should be familiar with military, naval and political
affairs. Roosevelt would have been an ideal man for this duty in
the World War.
XXIX. The Missions and Organization of the Political Forces.
The principal missions of the political forces are:
a) To attack directly the morale of the enemy nation.
b) To raise the morale of our own country.
c) To influence neutral nations to our advantage.
In former times the principal duty of our political forces was to
influence a small number of powerful individuals; our diplomatic
service was sufficient for that purpose.
Now that an entire population as well as the government must
be influenced, a propaganda service is formed to support our diplo-
matic service and to exert political influence over a wider field.
The propaganda service works both publicly and privately hand
in hand with the diplomatic service. It acts publicly through the


  p. 1381 (#299)                      #

1925)
1381
National Strategy
medium of news agencies, newspapers, publishing companies
magazines and books; privately, it acts through our educational
and religious systems and social, political, labor and fraternal or-
ganizations.
In the same way that our armed and economic forces must be
built up and prepared during peacetime so must our political forces
be used in peacetime in preparing the ground for their war meas-
ures. The political campaigns should be as carefully planned and
prepared as those of the economic and armed forces.
XXX. Attacks on the Enemy Morale.--In attacking the mo-
rale of the enemy nation we have two general methods :
a) To work secretly against selected individuals or organiza-
tions.
b) To attack publicly the enemy nation as a whole.
In any nation there are weak spots. These may consist of either
influential individuals or groups of people, whose actions weaken
the government through mistaken idealism or deliberate defection
stirred up by past grievances. The encouragement of these in-
dividuals or groups in their opposition to the enemy government is
a delicate question. Often no action is necessary or even desirable,
for their action is hostile to the enemy government rather than
friendly to ours.
Formerly it was easier to cause the defection of influential men
than in the present era. Philip of Macedon used to say that no city
could hold out against him into which he could drive an ass laden
with gold. In the age of mercenary troops treachery was of quite
common occurrence; it was also prevalent in revolutions, there
being familiar examples in the American and French revolutions ;
it also occurs in times of great national disaster, where a great
nation falls before its enemies; notable examples are Talleyrand
in 1814 and certain Germans in 1918; these traitors had little
difficulty in winning over other persons whose resolution had been
broken by military defeats; one may read in the memoirs of the
Crown Prince of the complete moral breakdown of the German
Great Headquarters at Spa in November, 1918, similar in every
detail to that of Napoleon's at Fontainebleau.
But, except at the actual breakdown of nations, when the sauve
qui peut begins, there were very few people of any importance


  p. 1382 (#300)                      #

1382
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
whose actions weakened the morale of their own countries; Ger-
many had its Lichnowsky and Liebknecht; France its Caillaux,
Merrheim, Faure and Hubert; only Austria and Bulgaria afforded
numerous examples of defection.
Our secret propaganda can also be directed with effect against
some selected minorities in enemy countries. This usually is a
racial minority. Thus the Germans selected the Poles and the
Irish as the objectives of their intrigues; the French, the Alsa-
tians; the Russians, the Czechs; the Serbians, the people of Bosnia
and the Banat; the Italians, the Austrian citizens of Italian de-
scent; the British, the Arabs. The Bolsheviks worked through
the German Communist party and undermined the very founda-
tions of the German Empire. The French pacifists about ruined
France in 1917. In some way, possibly through our representative
at Sofia, the Bulgarian army was won over, so that the five divi-
sions on the front attacked by the Allies marched home without
making any resistance.
It was expected that the religious, political, labor and fraternal
organizations of international scope would be an important means
for influencing enemy nations, but the national spirit was so strong
that it broke all such ties. Even the relationship of monarchs,
despite reports at the time, had surprisingly little effect.
To work publicly against the enemy nation as a whole we have
two general methods of operation :
a) Official statements of our political and military leaders.
b) Organized propaganda in newspapers and magazines.
The first method was usually employed to detach the people from
their governments. It was used by the Germans in their various
peace offensives to show that the Central Powers wished peace
and that the allied governments were responsible for the prolonga-
tion of the war. It was used even more effectively by President
Wilson who induced the Germans to depose their own leaders and
bring about the downfall of their Empire by creating the impres-
sion that once a republic was formed the German people would
be treated with great consideration; meanwhile the Fourteen
Points found their way into the scrap-basket, as they could not
well remain on the table along with the Treaty of Versailles.
While official reports of military and naval operations are mostly
for the purpose of raising the morale of our own people, they


  p. 1383 (#301)                      #

1925]
1383
National Strategy
should, if practicable, also be utilized for breaking the confidence
of the enemy nation, care being taken that they remain strictly
truthful, so as not to induce overconfidence in our own people.
The German reports were so effectively drawn that, according to
Repington, their publication was prohibited in Great Britain.
The second method, that of using propaganda controlled by the
government, is used principally for breaking the confidence of the
enemy in victory. As this is meant for publication in enemy and
neutral countries and has not the official stamp of approval it is
not so necessary to keep strictly to the truth. This method includes:
a) Exaggeration of the effect of battles. A Somme, a Flanders,
or even a Jutland can be manufactured into a victory. A remark-
able opportunity was afforded to make Pyrrhic tactical victories in
Mesopotamia and the Palestine into great strategic successes.
Much was made of the retreat of the Germans to the Hindenburg
line, although this really strengthened the German position and
had much to do with the total breakdown of the allied offensives
of 1917.
b) The exaggeration of enemy losses, in order to create the im-
pression that the enemy leaders are ruthlessly sacrificing their
troops. The allied propaganda along these lines was most effective,
although now we see that the charge could be made against their
own commanders rather than the German generals.
c) The exaggeration of our reinforcements and new equipment
being prepared. This was a constant feature of our wartime
propaganda. Despite the fact that few of these predictions—as,
for instance, those about aircraft and eagle boats—ever material-
ized, they doubtless had their effect on the enemy; it seems to be
a human failing to think continually of what the enemy can do to
you rather than what you can do to the enemy.
XXXI. Measures to Raise the Morale of Our People. The
second mission of our political forces is to raise the morale of our
own people. This can be accomplished:
a) By working privately through various civil organizations.
b) By public official statements and organized propaganda.
c) By taking appropriate action against unpatriotic individuals
and organizations.
In our country splendid work was done during the last war to
raise the morale of our people by all our civil organizations. Our


  p. 1384 (#302)                      #

1384
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
educational system always provides a means for building up a
spirit of patriotism during peacetime and in these days of pacifism
particular attention should be given to training our youth in love
of our country. Our religious systems also form a potent means
of raising the morale of our people and during the war their work
was very effective along these lines; it is to be hoped that our re-
ligious organizations will continue to exert all their efforts in en-
couraging patriotism and love of country. During the World War
all of our social, political, labor and fraternal organizations used
their powerful influences correctly, but some minor political and
labor organizations are now centers of defection.
In wartime great countries usually have one or more great
leaders whose public statements in time of defeat or even despair
can rally their nations once more behind them. Thus time and
time again the Germans rallied behind the towering figure of Hin-
denburg and perhaps could even have been rallied at the very end
had not the exhaustion of four years' struggle finally worn down
the moral strength of their leader himself. Even in the darkest
hours of 1918 the fighting spirit of Clemenceau, who so typified his
people, kept the French to their task. President Wilson, during
wartime, had a remarkable influence over his people, and his de-
cision to draft a large army for use in France-a decision which
decided the war—was accepted without the slightest opposition by
the nation at large. In the first months of the war Lord Roberts,
Kitchener and Fisher raised the fighting spirit of the British to the
highest degree and the people accepted without question all their
decisions for throwing all the nation's strength into the struggle.
All publicity connected with the war should be controlled by the
propaganda service and handled in accordance with correct prin-
ciples. It must be realized that untruthfulness is a dangerous ex-
pedient and that such propaganda may be a two-edged sword,
which may injure us more than the enemy. Thoughtless action
on our part may needlessly embitter the enemy or create over-
confidence in our country. It is strongly believed that the course
of the war should be truthfully described to our people. When we
start concealing defeats and publishing fictitious victories we take
a dangerous course. In the first place, this tends to make our
people overconfident and to believe that all is going well, whereas
in fact a dangerous situation may exist. In the second place, un-


  p. 1385 (#303)                      #

1925]
1385
National Strategy
truthful statements are usually detected in the end and this under-
mines the people's confidence in the government and will lead them
to suspect future official statements; furthermore, if the situation
should continue to grow worse, there will come a time when this
will have to be disclosed and then the issuing of bad news which
has been accumulating for a long period will be a great shock to
the people and a heavy blow at their morale; thus the British
people were entirely unprepared for the news of the German
break-through of March 21, 1918. Where a great crisis or battle
is imminent, it is entirely correct to conceal the news of some minor
defeats, which may be wiped out by the coming engagement,
A measure frequently employed during war is to accuse the
enemy of committing inhuman atrocities; this is almost always a
resort of a defeated army; it is seldom used by a victorious one.
This, it is true, is extremely effective in instilling our people with
hatred for the enemy, but it is the lowest form of warfare; if
submarine warfare and poison gas are to be prohibited, how much
more should be this treacherous and underhanded attack, which
poisons the minds of entire populations and causes unspeakable
bitterness for years to come. If such propaganda embitters our
nation against the enemy it likewise causes equal hatred in the
enemy nation for us. Regardless of the truth of the charges made
the nation with the most effective propaganda will win this in-
famous campaign. Furthermore, it should be remembered that
these attacks are made on our own profession and that they may
react against us in future years.
During the World War such effective action was taken in our
country against disloyal or unpatriotic citizens or residents that
they were unable to accomplish anything of importance; we were
far superior to all the European nations in this respect.
XXXII. Measures to Influence Neutral Nations. The great-
est field for the use of our political forces is that of the neutral
nations. From the start of the war both British and Germans
started political campaigns with this end in view. The diplomatic
service was in the main employed in this campaign, but it was sup-
ported most effectively by the propaganda service and assisted by
the armed and economic forces. In general, the European nations
were swayed by two ideas:
a) Which side would make the best offer.


  p. 1386 (#304)                      #

1386
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
b) What were the chances of actually getting the territory or
other considerations offered.
To take an example, the Allies could freely offer Italy large
slices of Austrian and Turkish territory. They could back up
their diplomatic offers to the government by converting the people
at the same time by their propaganda. They could offer Italy
assistance by their armed and economic forces. The Allies also
appeared to have the best chances of victory. On the other hand,
Germany could not induce Austria to cede much territory to its
hereditary enemy; their propaganda was less effective and they
could furnish little assistance with their armed and economic
forces; as a consequence the Germans were fortunate to keep Italy
neutral until their Russian campaign was well under way. They
were also able to keep Italy from formally declaring war on Ger-
many and continued to get many essential materials.
In Bulgaria, on the other hand, the Germans held the trump
cards. They could freely offer Serbian territory, which, hy
Churchill's admission, was rightly Bulgarian. They even induced
their ally—Turkey—to cede immediately a small but important
slice of land. They could offer strong military and economic as-
sistance and could point to their Russian successes and the British
failure at the Dardanelles as proof of their certainty of winning.
As they knew Bulgaria would never enter a war against the United
States, the Germans, especially, stopped the submarine campaign
for this reason. Their one failure was the maintenace of the
United States diplomatic service at Sofia after we entered the war;
this gave us an unrivalled opportunity for propaganda.
The United States was in a different category from the Euro-
pean nations. We wanted nothing for ourselves and would enter
the war either :
a) To assist the side which had our strong moral sympathy in
case it should appear to be in serious danger of losing the war.
b) To resist the illegal action of one of the warring nations.
In the first case it was entirely a question of our sympathy. In
the second it was partly a question of the gravity of the offense and
partly one of sympathy. We would undoubtedly have permitted
Great Britain and France to commit greater breaches of inter-
national law than would have been permitted to Germany. Thus


  p. 1387 (#305)                      #

1925]
1387
National Strategy
the one really important matter was to win our sympathies. The
Allies were certain to win the propaganda game in the United
States, because:
a) The British have always been head and shoulders above the
rest of the nations in diplomacy and propaganda. Their whole
history is based on their ability to win over neutral nations to their
side and to form coalitions against the leading continental power.
Their diplomacy and propaganda were the chief weapons which a
century ago brought down Napoleon. On the other hand, with
the exception of Bismarck, the German diplomacy has always been
clumsy, and their propaganda, while perhaps suited for Russians
and the Balkan people, caused such adverse results in the United
States that it had to be stopped entirely. Von Bernstorff alone
seems to have had some understanding of our character and he
undoubtedly did exceptionally good work until his government,
by the decision to commence again the submarine offensive, took
the matter out of his hands.
b) The British had the advantage that many of our most in-
Auential people made a habit of residing for long periods in France
and England and as a consequence strongly favored those coun-
tries. In addition, the British held all the trump cards for their
propaganda. The power who acts on the offensive, while having
all the military advantages, unfortunately has many political dis-
advantages. As he is the invader, it is easy to prove that he is
also the aggressor. It is easy to allege atrocities by the invader
which it is impossible for him to disprove. In addition, the Ger-
mans, while not generally a military race, were of recent years
considerably dominated by military leaders, and our dislike of
everything military, even reasonable readiness for war, placed the
Germans under a grave disadvantage. Finally, the British were
able to take advantage of several incidents of no real importance,
but which when presented with their usual skill for effect, had a
remarkable propaganda value.
c) The British had the great advantage of a common language
which facilitated their propaganda, while all German propaganda
had to be translated and republished.
d) The British had the advantage of cable and radio communi-
cations, as well as the mail, while the Germans had to rely on a
few radio stations.


  p. 1388 (#306)                      #

1388
(Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
It must be realized that it is not necessarily an advantage to
bring a nation into the war on our side. It was probably an ad-
vantage for Germany-disguised at first it is true—when Rou-
mania entered the war on the opposite side. On the other hand
the Germans believed that we were serving the allied cause as much
while we remained neutral as we could if we entered the war. This
certainly was a mistake which cost them dearly. Had they delayed
the announcement of the submarine campaign until the beginning
of the Russian revolution, they would have seen that it was un-
necessary to win the war; in that case we would not have entered
the war at all, or if so we would probably have delayed until it
was too late to prevent a German victory.
XXXIII. Organisation of the Political Forces.- For the po-
litical forces to exert their greatest influence it is necessary that
all the various forms of our diplomacy and propaganda be care-
fully coordinated; usually propaganda which is suited for under-
mining the confidence of the enemy or winning the sympathy of
a neutral nation is of far too exaggerated a nature to use for our
own population, which must be told honestly the true state of
affairs. In the same way we will not wish the actual conditions
to be known to neutral nations or to the enemy country. As an
example, British leadership had to shoulder the blame for the ter-
rible losses of the Flanders offensive of 1917; this was made
largely to draw the attention of the Germans away from the
French army, whose morale was so far broken that British writers
now admit that the situation throughout 1917 after the Aisne
offensive was the most critical of the whole war, not even except-
ing 1918. At that time, however, the true facts about the French
army could not be revealed to anyone, because it would soon have
become known to the Germans, probably with disastrous effect ;
the skill with which such a large secret was kept was most remark-
able, but as a result British leaders were strongly criticized for
the heavy losses of their troops.
In the World War the State Department, the Army, the Navy
and various other agencies were engaged in propaganda work; as
a result there was little coordination. Our political forces, includ-
ing all forms of propaganda, should be operated in accordance
with a definite system and a carefully thought out plan of cam-
paign. It would appear that the State Department is the agency


  p. 1389 (#307)                      #

1925)
1389
National Strategy
in our government best suited for operating the political forces
and that it should, after consultation with the other interested
departments, draw up the policies to guide our work and the
definite diplomatic and propaganda plans to attack the enemy mo-
rale, to raise the war spirit of our own people and to win the sym-
pathies of the important neutral nations. This should not prevent
the various agencies for spreading propaganda from engaging in
local work suited to their immediate needs, in the way that the
Germans undermined the morale of the Italian armies in the fall
of 1917, but whenever propaganda is of more than local importance
it should be coordinated with the general plan of the State De-
partment.
XXXIV. The Defense Council.-In order effectively to direct
the armed, economic and political forces in proper coordination so
as to create the greatest national effort, a defense council should
be charged with the conduct of the war under the direction of the
President, who is the commander-in-chief of all our forces. The
Secretaries of State, War and Navy and the economic administra-
tor should be the only members of the council. The disadvantages
of a larger council are most feelingly shown by Churchill in his
description of the conduct of the war by the British War Council
in the latter part of 1915.
In important conferences the council will be presided over by
the President. When desirable, members should bring their assist-
ants to conferences; this should apply particularly to the chief of
the General Staff and the chief of Naval Operations. Where
special situations are to be discussed the officers who have made
the closest study of them and are most familiar with their possi-
bilities should be allowed to express their opinions and present
their recommendations.
There should be in addition a defense council staff composed of
persons nominated by the members of the council. This staff
should draw the general plans and issue the orders for combined
operations based on the decisions of the council ; the staff should
be authorized to initiate proposals for combined operations and
make recommendations for the better coordination of the national
forces.
XXXV. Conclusion. In this paper the outline of the problem
of national strategy has alone been sketched. Each one of the


  p. 1390 (#308)                      #

1390
(Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
various phases herein briefly indicated is worthy of a study in
itself. The proposals for a defense council and staff have indi-
cated merely the general ideas for the formation of these important
agencies, preferably by an expansion of the present Joint Board,
which has done so much to bring the Army and Navy together.
The details of its operation would have to be worked out in actual
practice. These agencies are just as important now in peace time
as in war; their formation agrees with the present demand of our
people for economy, because there is no doubt but that the opera-
tion of such agencies would greatly increase our national readiness
for war without added expense. A real coordination of our na-
tional forces in the next war will be worth many army corps and
battleships.
While one object of this paper has been to stress the increased
importance of the economic and political forces, it must still be re-
membered that the armed forces strongly predominate in war.
Furthermore, it is forces which attack which count; we want
armed forces which will be more than a First Line of Defense,
unless by this phrase we mean to insure defense by attack. We
must think of war as comprising attacks on the enemy, attacks in
his own waters, attacks to gain the control of waters which are
vital to him ; only by such operations can we decide the war in our
favor without bringing an excessive strain on our economic forces,
and justify the sums of money which are expended annually for
the maintenance of the armed forces.


  p. 1391 (#309)                      #

NOTES ON ADMINISTRATION OF INDUS-
TRIAL WORK IN NAVY YARDS
By CAPTAIN HENRY WILLIAMS (CC), U.S.N.
Motto: Cooperation and Courtesy are the Parents of Efficiency.
The world bestows its big prizes, both in money and honors, for but
one thing, and that is Initiative. What is Initiative? It is doing the right
thing without being told.
-ELBERT HUBBARD.
Cooperation.—The dictionary defines cooperation as concurrent
effort, or labor, to attain some particular result. In other words
as "working together." Obviously, the first object of any man-
agement is to organize the working force and administer the busi-
ness so as to obtain the largest measure of cooperation among the
members of the organization, among themselves and with the cus-
tomer. It is safe to say that the useful output of any organization
is measured directly by the amount of such cooperation. No or-
ganization, however efficient its individual members, or its gen-
eral arrangement, can succeed without full and free cooperation.
In a navy yard, with its varied functions, its numerous sub-
divisions and shops, cooperation is not easily secured. The conflict-
ing interests of the heads of the departments, heads of divisions,
shop masters, etc., are not always readily reconcilable. Inter-
ferences arise and work is delayed and costs increased unless com-
plete cooperation exists.
The securing of a proper system of organization is the first and
most essential step in the efforts for cooperation. Obviously, all
work must be under the active direction and control of one official,
who, in navy yards, is the manager, and under whom are placed
the industrial activities of the yard, including the labor force and
all facilities of productive shops and offices. The manager is the
industrial aid to the commandant and is charged with organizing
and administering the business allotted to him, that he may accom-
plish the desired result, which is, maximum service to the fleet.
Having in mind the mission of the navy yard, the manager must


  p. 1392 (#310)                      #

1392
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
indoctrinate the force under him with the necessity for complete
and unreserved cooperation. He must take measures to assist and
encourage such cooperation, making such physical dispositions of
offices, shops, and so forth, as may be necessary to bring the
closest contact possible among those who must work together.
Organization, however, is only an instrument of management.
Energetic, industrious personnel, actuated by a true cooperative
spirit, will accomplish more, even with poor organization, than a
perfect organization with personnel lacking in initiative and failing
to cooperate. Good management consists essentially in clearing
away obstructions and interferences and keeping them cleared
away so that every individual in the organization can do a day's
work with the maximum efficiency and, therefore, achieve the
maximum output. The matter of keeping obstructions cleared
away means constant and painstaking attention to an infinite num-
ber of details, because obstructions never remain cleared. This,
in turn, means industry, initiative, perseverance, intelligence, and
cooperative spirit on the part of all officers, from the manager
down, and of all supervisors. No amount of carefully prescribed
procedure can take the place of these qualities among the per-
sonnel.
It is of the utmost importance that the cooperation of the work-
ing force with the management and with each other be secured.
The prime requisite for this is for the management to set the
example by cooperating with the men in aiding them in securing
those things which contribute to their contentment and well being.
The principal point is to take all possible steps to keep employ-
ment steady, reduce labor turnover and eliminate, so far as may
be done, the ever present fear of discharge for lack of work. If
the management convinces the force that the best efforts are being
made to keep the force employed, the cooperation of the force to
complete work satisfactorily may be expected. The slogan to em-
ploy in this connection is obviously that, “The best way to get more
work is to do good work.” This has a direct appeal and is most
effective. An important element in securing the cooperation of the
working force is to keep it fully informed of plans for work in
hand and in prospect and what, in general, are the aims of the
management and the steps proposed to accomplish such aims. The
men should be given credit for their work when successful and


  p. 1393 (#311)                      #

1925)
1393
Industrial Work in Navy Yards
appreciation of good work should be expressed freely. The in-
terest of the people in the community should be secured in order
that the men may find among their friends and acquaintances an
understanding of their activity, and interest in the particular work
on which they are engaged. It is natural that a man wants to
discuss his day's work with his home people. If he finds an under-
standing of its importance and its difficulties, his own interest and
desire to make good increase.
It is of importance that the yard working force feel a pro-
prietary interest in the ships and their personnel, their well being,
movements, success in target practice, engineering competition,
and so forth. The idea should be instilled that navy yards are
intended for the service of the ships. The local press should be
encouraged to feature the ships at the yard and their activities
away from the yard. The purpose of major alterations and ex-
perimental installations should be explained as far as possible and
interest aroused in the outcome. Ships arriving at the yard should
be made welcome and the usual telephone, power, water and heat-
ing connections made promptly and without requiring from the
ships more than that they indicate their requirements. The con-
venience of the ships arriving and departing should be consulted,
rather than that of the yard.
At the Norfolk yard it has been possible to meet ships before
arrival for pre-repair trials and inspections and to explain to the
ships' people the plans for the prospective overhaul. The ob-
servance of these amenities assists the morale of the yard, as well
as that of the ships' people and contributes greatly to obtaining
cooperation.
The Customer Is Right.—It is a well-known rule in the commer-
cial world that the customer must be satisfied. Many of the most
successful stores have as a slogan the phrase quoted, “The cus-
tomer is right.” In navy yard work, this doctrine is of the great-
est value and contributes to securing the best and most effective
cooperation between the yard and the ships for which work is
being performed. There should be no argument if work is not
satisfactory to ships' officers and they should be informed that it
is the intention and desire of the yard to satisfy the requirements
of the ships. No one is authorized to find that ships' requirements
are unreasonable, except the commandant or the manager acting


  p. 1394 (#312)                      #

1394
[Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
for him. The amount of work the yard can perform is, of course,
limited by funds available, date of completion and priority, fixed
by the Department. Ships are requested to furnish a list of work
desired by them in the order of importance. All work undertaken
must be completed to the satisfaction of the ship. Courteous
treatment and consideration of their wishes brings the greatest
possible reward in cooperation from the ships' people and in secur-
ing their good will. This is set forth strikingly in the following,
which was embodied in a wall card for display in all shops and
on all bulletin boards:
I am the payer of large dividends,
I am the foundation rock upon
Which is built that great asset-
Good Will.
No man is big enough, or small
Enough, to dispense with me,
I am inexpensive, all can have me-
I am Courtesy.
"It Will Be Done."—When something has to be done, the proper
attitude of mind is—“It will be done and how accomplish it to
the best advantage?" Personnel should be urged to find ways to
do things and not ways not to do them, and to bear in mind Ad-
miral McGowan's slogan during the war that a person saying
something cannot be done is interrupted, generally, by someone
doing it. During the war one of the repair ships overseas had a
sign over the gangway reading, “Yes, you can have it. What is
it?” The limitations of navy yards do not, by any means, permit
such liberal policy. However, the attitude should be that anything
required will be done so far as limitations permit. Above all,
yard personnel should not presume to argue with ships' people as
to whether or not they do need something, or to suggest that they
do not know their own minds. This does not prevent giving freely
of technical information and advice, but does leave to the ships the
decision as to what they desire to be accomplished.
Increasing Output of Force.-If every man in an organization
worked continually at the rate he is capable of working and does
actually work at times, the output of the force would be increased
many times over. It is not humanly possible to accomplish such a
result, but it is quite possible to secure a very marked increase in


  p. 1395 (#313)                      #

1925]
1395
Industrial Work in Navy Yards
the output by methods that readily are available. Many of these
have been referred to in other portions of these notes. One of
the simplest and most effective is to give the men concrete assur-
ance, by keeping plenty of work ahead, that they are not working
themselves out of a job. There should be more work in the yard
than the normal capacity of the force permits of accomplishing.
The average worker on a per diem status has in his mind always
the fear of losing his job. If there is not work in sight for him,
he will “nurse the job" that he is on. If, on the other hand, he is
satisfied in his own mind that there is plenty of work ahead for
him and that his job depends on the manner of performance of his
work, then his efficiency and output will increase. He will do
what he can to complete the job in hand as required.
Date of completion of overhaul of ships, delivery of manu-
factured articles, and so forth, must be rigidly observed. There
should be no compromise; ships' work should be completed and
vessels leave the yard on the date set. It is conceivable that con-
ditions will arise preventing meeting a date, but, it is surprising
how rarely this happens if the management is firm in not con-
sidering pleas for extension. It is surprising how activity of the
force on a job increases when the date of completion approaches
and how it slacks off if, for any reason, a date is extended.
Policy and Doctrine. It is of assistance to the officer and
civilian supervisory force to have in concrete form a statement of
the policy and doctrines of the yard and management. Such a
document assists in crystallizing ideas and guides the conduct of
personnel in their administration of business. The following
memorandum has been drafted and issued to the personnel of the
yard and has assisted materially in obtaining the proper cooperation
of the various persons affected:
The mission of the Norfolk Navy Yard is to make the maximum con-
tribution possible to material upkeep of the fleet, and to maintain an
organization and plant that will permit of the most effective expansion of
its activities in time of war. The location of this navy yard in the Port
of Norfolk, a most active and important east coast port, renders this latter
function of great importance, and it must be kept in mind in considering
questions which affect the yard plant and organization.
The doctrine of the yard based on the above conception of our mission
may be described briefly:
a) To maintain as high state of morale, efficiency and industry as
possible among officers and civilian employees.


  p. 1396 (#314)                      #

1396
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
b) To maintain, in the various trades, as uniform force as is possible
with the work to be performed and funds allotted by the Department. To
reduce labor turnover to the minimum possible.
c) To have sufficient work in prospect to give the yard force assurance
that they will not work themselves out of a job. The yard officials should
have as much interest in obtaining work for the yard as would be the case
in a private plant.
d) To distribute force in such a way as to meet the requirements of the
Department as to dates of completion of work and to observe scrupulously
the priority of work as fixed by the Department.
e) To keep outstanding in the yard more work than can be performed,
in order that each shop's task may be slightly in excess of its capacity
rather than less than its capacity.
f) To maintain the morale of the force by keeping them interested in
the work in hand and in prospect. To maintain loyalty among the working
force, to the yard and its interests, and to the management.
9) So to conduct relations with ship's people and others for whom work
is performed as to merit and obtain their good will. So to prosecute work
as to merit and obtain approval of those for whom work is performed.
This includes workmanship, cost, and manner of carrying on work and
administering the business connected with it.
The doctrine of the yard requires that the priority list issued by the
management, and based on the instructions of the Department, is the order
of work sheet and is binding on all yard personnel. Date of completion of
work once fixed or approved by the Department must be met, and no
action taken that might lead to delay in completion without prior approval
of the Department.
The doctrine of the yard requires that ship work be always of first
importance and that no work of a different character, such as work for
other government departments, be permitted even to appear to interfere.
Such work, however, when within the capacity of the force, is of great
importance, for the reason that it makes it possible for the yard to increase
its capacity for ship work by maintaining a more uniform and more skilled
force and better equipment, and by carrying a part of the yard's overhead
expense which otherwise would be paid from the appropriations for ships'
work. There is a considerable portion of fixed overhead expense which
does not change with the amount of work in the yard. This includes items
such as heating and lighting shops, pay of supervisory force, maintenance
of plant equipment, etc. Work other than ship work, in taking the regular
percentage of overhead, pays its share of such charges and so reduces the
amount charged to the appropriations for ship work.
The doctrine of the yard as regards manufacturing work requires all
possible reduction in costs of manufactured articles, so that funds allotted
to the fleet for maintenance be conserved to the greatest extent possible
and so contribute to the better material upkeep. For example, through


  p. 1397 (#315)                      #

1925]
1397
Industrial Work in Navy Yards
the manufacture of paint at a cost less than commercial prices, this yard
has reduced the cost of paints issued to ships by many thousands of dollars,
while insuring to them paints of highest quality and maximum effectiveness.
All of the money so saved becomes available to the ships for their better
upkeep in other particulars, and so is a direct contribution to the main-
tenance of the fleet.
The doctrine of the yard requires that material in excess of probable
requirements will not be manufactured. The stock of manufactured articles
should in no case be excessive, and, if for any reason an excess is in store,
all possible efforts will be made to dispose of the material to best advantage.
The doctrine of the yard in connection with manufacturing work re-
quires that invariably every effort must be made to meet engagements.
This means that there should be no departure from the specifications
except as duly authorized, that dates set for delivery should be met, and
above all that costs should not exceed the estimates. Much of this work
is obtained through the yard submitting estimates in competition with other
yards and private concerns. It is of the utmost importance in all such
cases that we meet our estimates, and that our product complies with the
specifications of the order.
The doctrine of the yard requires that the officers and employees be
kept informed of the conditions of work load, the work in prospect, and
the reasons. for requiring special attention to certain work. In general,
the yard employees and their public, that is the local community, should
be taken into the confidence of the management to the greatest possible extent.
The doctrine of the yard requires that the appreciation and commendation
of the management be expressed fully and freely when the results of the
work justify praise. Conversely, that full information as to any unsatis-
factory work be furnished with statement of the steps taken to obviate
recurrence. In private establishments appreciation of good work is ex-
pressed in terms of money bonus, advances in pay, etc. No such steps
being possible in a navy yard, recourse is to free expression of appreciation,
approval and commendation.
The doctrine of the yard as regards the relations with ship people
requires that their wishes should receive at all times the highest considera-
tion, and that they should be treated with the utmost courtesy. Our
attitude to the ships that come to the yard and have home yard here is
that they are our ships, and we have the same interest in them as iſ in fact
they were our ships. Ships' people must be impressed with the idea that it
is the fixed resolve of the yard to make good and to perform all work so
as to meet their requirements and to merit and win their approval.
The doctrine of the yard also requires that the good will of all must
be obtained. That courtesy is the best means of doing so, and when good
work and courtesy go hand in hand no combination can be more efficacious.


  p. 1398 (#316)                      #

SUBMARINE
CAPABILITIES AND LIMITATIONS
By LIEUTENANT WILDER D. BAKER, U. S. Navy
CUBMARINES have been a part of our Navy for something
like twenty years but only recently has any attempt been
made to incorporate them as a part of the feet. During the
early stages of submarine development, when the Porpoise and
the Shark were the "queens of the seas,” the time of the officers
commanding them was spent in trying to make them run at all, and
beyond an occasional attempt to torpedo a target (probably station-
ary) no tactical data was ever obtained and probably little thought
was given the subject. It was really not until after the World
War that much thought was given to their capabilities as, prior to
then, no one ever heard of much else than their limitations. During
the war, submarines made a name for themselves, not enviable,
but well known and thoroughly feared. The fear that they brought
to the hearts of surface craft officers and crews may have left an
impression that is not quite correct as to their capabilities. It is
for the above reasons that the following outline of the capabilities
and limitations of submarines is submitted. It may not be entirely
correct, but if it causes the service at large to think about sub-
marines in any other than a horrified or disgusted manner it will
have accomplished its purpose.
In the first place the modern submarine is a surface ship with
the ability to submerge completely, remain in that condition long
enough to do certain definite things, and then return to the surface,
ready to repeat the performance only after certain definite con-
ditions are fulfilled. To give a surface ship the ability to sub-
merge and return to the surface it was necessary to make radical
changes in the design. These have taken the form of the installa-
tion of large and cumbrous storage batteries to supply power when
submerged; a change in hull shape and strength to withstand the
high water pressures at great depths ; the installation in the hull
of large tanks which may be filled with water to destroy the sur-


  p. 1399 (#317)                      #

1925)
1399
Submarine Capabilities and Limitations
face buoyancy; the fitting of planes for control of depth while sub-
merged; the addition of long periscopes which give a certain
degree of vision to the officer on watch and the development of
a special engine with which to propel the boat on the surface and
to renew the electric power in the storage battery after emerging.
All these things have contributed to make a new type of ship which
the service at large understands but vaguely. I will try to list the
various capabilities and the corresponding limitations so that this
valuable arm of the fleet may be better understood.
To start with: A long cruise—say 10,000 miles—is quite prac-
ticable. Provisions and fuel can be carried for a trip of that length.
No one of the crew of a submarine would care to start on so long
an uninterrupted run, as the living conditions are not what they
should be and at the end of it all hands would need a week in
which to rest before doing anything else. Such a trip would
require about forty days at a minimum and would leave the crew
pretty well done up. If this long trip were reduced to 4,000 miles
a certain reserve of strength of personnel would be left that
would admit of more or less protracted war operations at the end
of the cruise. The two features are complementary and the ex-
tension of one automatically reduces the other. The additions and
change of design of the surface type to permit submergence have
left the submarine crowded, shorthanded, with consequent hard
watches, poorly ventilated and tremendously active in a seaway.
There is no room for setting up exercises except in a dead flat
sea which is seldom encountered on a long cruise. These con-
ditions result in loss of tone by all hands and at the end of a ten-
day trip a run on the beach is almost imperative. The same con-
ditions that make the submarine poor living quarters also make
poor working quarters, in that the machinery is so closely crowded
that repairs on one piece usually require the disassembling of
others. Under these conditions the repair work at the end of a
cruise is apt to look appalling when first listed. The combination
of run-down physical and mechanical conditions after a long run
makes it imperative that a period of rest be given before extended
operations against the enemy be undertaken.
With the submarines at present with the fleet, a thirty-day
cruise would require about ten days' recuperation and overhaul ;
a cruise of two weeks would probably require about five days or


  p. 1400 (#318)                      #

1400
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
even less. This does not mean that the boats would be entirely
unfit for war operations on reaching their destination, for there
is no doubt that the American bluejacket can put across the last
drop in him, even after it is apparently gone. A few days of rest
and exercise after any extended cruise will, however, materially
increase the efficiency of the following war operations. All officers
who have served on small ships will appreciate this condition.
Next we will think of the submerged work. As everyone knows,
it is necessary to destroy the buoyancy of a vessel to sink or sub-
merge it. As indicated above, this is done in a submarine by the
admission of sea water to the ballast tanks. By the use of small
tanks the amount of water in the boat is varied so that if a good
“trim” is obtained the vessel has practically neutral buoyancy and
is about equally heavy fore and aft. If the trim is perfect the boat
will "balance” with only a foot or so of periscope above the water.
If it is not perfect she will either sink or rise. Owing to the
varying density of sea water, wave action, and movement of per-
sonnel within the boat a trim is never perfect and it is necessary
to use the forward and after planes and the power of the pro-
pellers to maintain or change depth. The screws supply all power
for advance through the water and for change of plane or depth
in the water. The planes are merely large fins extending out
from the side of the hull and capable of rotation around a hori-
zontal axis. If they are inclined down she will, of course, sink,
the change of depth resulting from the force of the water im-
pinging on the inclined plane surfaces. The rate at which change
of depth is made depends entirely on the rate of travel through
the water and is a function of the speed and the angle of plane to
the horizontal and is, therefore, to a great extent under the control
of the diving officer, although his control is affected by his prox-
imity to the target (allowable variation of speed), the state of the
sea and the expertness of his crew.
With the above points in mind let us consider the attack of a
submarine on a screened battleship. If he is alone, that is, there are
no other submarines attacking in the immediate vicinity, and he
has been able to pick up his target from well ahead, the problem
of the commanding officer is quite simple. He submerges before
being seen and closes his target at maximum speed until he can
definitely decide on his course and speed, ascertain the nature of


  p. 1401 (#319)                      #

1925]
1401
Submarine Capabilities and Limitations
her screening forces and their relation to his target-in other
words make a logical estimate of the situation.
During his first approach at high speed he has been running at
about seventy-five feet, deep enough to be clear of casual traffic
and possibly avoid an outer screen. When he decides it is time to
take a look and make his estimate of the situation he stops and
listens to ascertain the proximity of the screen or other craft. If
he decides that all is clear he comes to periscope depth and ex-
amines the situation closely at a dead slow speed in order not to
leave a wake by which he could be recognized and attacked before
delivering his own attack. After reaching his final decision he
goes to his attacking course, starts his watch and other tracking
instruments and proceeds at the speed necessary to "get in." The
anti-submarine screen is his chief worry now. This he will evade
if his listeners are well trained and his own experience and judg-
ment are sufficiently good. His next “look” will come only when
his listeners report that the screen is astern and his watch tells him
that it is time. This exposure of his periscope will probably be his
last before firing, after which he will try to make good his escape.
The above outline of an attack sounds much easier than it
really is for there will be many unforeseen situations and his crew
will never be trained to the point that everything will work out as
planned. It is given, however, to give the service a picture of
what we try to do. It has been done and, as we get more experi-
ence with the fleet, will be done more often and with a greater
chance of success. This can be done, not only by one boat working
alone, but is quite feasible of accomplishment by a section of three
or four boats working as a unit. It requires more training,
greater permanence in station, and all the other factors that tend
toward successful cooperation, but it can be done if conditions of
sea and light are favorable and the training of officers and crews
is properly carried out.
The conditions outlined above are those which might well obtain
in war under favorable circumstances. Now consider the chances
of success under very adverse conditions. Take a number of sub-
marines, all of which sight a force of capital ships at about the
same time. Their missions are all the same and they have been
placed on the circle of visibility to report the exit of this force
from a harbor and to attack if possible. The capital ships are ex-


  p. 1402 (#320)                      #

1402
[Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
pecting a submarine attack and are well screened close up with
swiftly moving zigzagging destroyers, besides having an outer
screen, covering the exit, of several squadrons of destroyers mov-
ing at such a rate that the time interval between them is from
thirty to forty-five seconds, as it would be if they used a speed of
20 knots. All these destroyers are armed with depth bombs which,
if they really believed submarines to be in their area, they would
drop at frequent intervals. Under these conditions the capital
ships need not fear a submarine attack. If the light screening
forces are numerous enough to maintain the screen outlined they
never need fear such an attack. It will not be made for the rea-
sons indicated below.
In the first place, there would be the danger of collision between
attacking submarines. All of them would be bound for the same
point and as their primary mission was information they would
not be in a position to concentrate for a united attack. When
several ships are all headed for the same place it is very probable
that two or more will get there at the same time, particularly when
they can't see. A collision submerged need not be fatal but it is
something to be earnestly avoided.
You ask "Why can't they see?” You will remember that it is
necessary to use a very slow speed on exposing the periscope when
in the vicinity of other ships to avoid detection. This slow speed
makes depth keeping difficult. Listeners will be helpless, for with
eight or nine ships moving rapidly overhead it will be impossible
to distinguish one from another. If one of the submarines decides
to chance it and gets into the mêlée, his first sight on exposing a
periscope will probably be that of a destroyer charging at him at
a rate of 20 to 30 knots. When it is realized that the maximum
field of a periscope is only 34° and that a destroyer may be
charging him from any one of the 360° it makes his position that
much more perilous. Still, consider the submarine in the mêlée
and that the periscope has shown a destroyer crossing his bow so
that danger of collision is imminent. What can be done? He will
try to dive under as that is the only hope of escape. He is going
at from 1 to 20 knots. His rate of change of depth in smooth
water will be not greater than one foot in twenty seconds at first
and maybe after he has started down will increase to a foot in
fifteen to twelve seconds. As he must drop at least ten feet it will


  p. 1403 (#321)                      #

1925]
1403
Submarine Capabilities and Limitations
take him approximately three minutes. In this time a destroyer
at twenty knots can go one mile. His chances are slim. His time
of diving will be decreased if he can speed up but remember he has
a ship weighing a thousand tons to accelerate from one knot to
something like five before any material increase in diving speed is
actually gained. His turning circle is many times that of a de-
stroyer, and the Y-gun has made a destroyer very broad in effective
beam. As was stated before, the battleships are effectively
screened, and it is doubted that any submarine could get through
such a screen and make an effective attack. If it did it would be
marvelous good fortune and make the commanding officer eligible
for all the honors that the Allies and the Central Powers combined
could shower upon him. What these boats would actually do
under the above conditions would be to gain as much distance as -
possible in the direction of advance of the enemy and lay in wait
for him in hopes that the screen would thin out and night time or
twilight would give submarines a favorable opportunity for attack.
The above discussion will indicate that there are times and
places when a submarine attack on screened forces is practicable
and, contrariwise, there are conditions that forbid such an attack.
The strength of a submarine lies in the fact that she can see
without being seen. This is her one claim to fame. Before the
war developed the depth bomb and the listening devices she could
escape counter-attack by submerging, leaving the enemy without
a point of attack. But the old race between armor and projectile
took a side shoot during the World War with the result that the
submarine has lost much of its protection heretofore gained by
submergence and must now take its chances with counter-attack
which only luck, aided, of course, by skill and knowledge, can
forfend. Surprise is the one great advantage.
This feature is most easily gained by a submarine on patrol.
She is sent to an area known to be frequented by the enemy. At
daylight, or just before, she sinks quietly to where only a foot or
so of periscope is above the water. With two feet of periscope
out she has a horizon of nearly two miles. The tail masts of a
ship add several more to this. It is an easy matrer to lie in wait
and deliver a torpedo attack on a passing troopship or cruiser.
Every advantage lies with the submarine. This method of patrol
can be made into a blockade of an enemy port or into an outpost


  p. 1404 (#322)                      #

1404
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
for information. If it is the latter she can forward the news col-
lected or deduced to her superior at night when she comes to the
surface to recharge her storage batteries.
On this patrol her listening devices will give certain information
before her periscope can gather the details. During the last war,
American submarines formed an anti-submarine patrol in shipping
lanes off the coasts of England and Ireland. The listeners, each
on duty twelve hours a day either at the S.C. tube or radio, soon
became expert and could always tell whether the propellers heard
were those of a destroyer, submarine or trawler long before the
periscope gave the information. These details were of great value
but they were not enough. Before an attack could be made or an
escape executed it was necessary to see what the ship was doing.
The other day an old shipmate asked if it wouldn't be possible
to lie on the bottom in a submarine, his idea being to get all
information necessary from the listening devices and to conserve
the storage batteries. Oi course it is possible to lie on the bottom
in a submarine. All that it is necessary to do is to run down and
then take in enough water to give the boat negative buoyancy suffi-
cient to keep her from pounding due to the wave action. This
amount of "negative” will vary with the depth of water and the
condition of the sea on the surface. The higher the sea in relation
to the depth t. eater the amount of “negative” required.
But, after gy: ing on the bottom what good is the boat? There
can be no question of surprise and no real probability of an
attack-certainly not while on the bottom. Consider a boat lying
on the bottom at a depth of 150 feet off the entrance to New York
in November (I mention the month to give an idea of the surface
conditions). To keep from pounding due to wave action from
two to five tons of negative buoyancy will be required. A great
deal of shipping will pass overhead during one daylight period.
Well trained listeners will be able to report with considerable
accuracy whether the engines driving the screws that are heard
are reciprocating steam engines, turbines, or internal combustion
type. By plotting the bearings of these sounds we can get the
approximate course and speed of the ship. But what have we
gained by this ? Nothing.
If our mission is to obtain information to be reported later,
we might be able to report "a flock of turbine-driven vessels, prob-


  p. 1405 (#323)                      #

19251
1405
Submarine Capabilities and Limitations
ably destroyers, headed east, passed out at noon.” That informa-
tion might be of value but it couldn't be reported until night when it
might be too late, and if a periscope patrol had been used our in-
formation would have been increased by giving the exact number
and types and whether or not the ships had changed course to the
southward after passing our audible horizon. Also, with a periscope
patrol it would be possible to run off the beaten track and, if the
information were important enough to warrant giving away our
presence, come to the surface and broadcast it immediately.
If the mission be attack then a patrol on the bottom is worse
than useless. Suppose our “flock of turbine-driven vessels” really
consisted of a division of battleships screened by destroyers. Be-
fore any attempt at attack could be made it would be necessary to
rid the boat of the negative buoyancy taken on to prevent pound-
ing. This would have to be done by pumping, for if the water
were blown out the measurement would be inaccurate and too
much might be blown, making the boat too light and incapable of
control at slow speeds. By the time the boat could leave the bot-
tom and reach periscope depth our target would be a mile ahead
and making such speed that attack would be impossible. It is
believed that the above remarks show the futility of such a patrol
when compared to that at periscope depth, in which condition the
submarine is ready for any eventuality.
W
To be able to bottom has, however, advantages under certain
conditiore .If being trailed with listening devices and depth
bombs it might be very convenient to rest on bottom and stop all
auxiliaries that might make a betraying sound.
Submarines can be used as scouts under certain conditions when
it would be bad policy to use a surface ship. This is particularly
true when negative information is valuable. Three or four sub-
marines could thoroughly search an area of considerable extent by
cruising on the surface and diving at the approach of a surface
ship. In this way a report in considerable detail could be given
without the enemy knowing of the reconnaissance. To use sub-
marines in a search requiring immediate report of conditions and
possible screening is open to discussion. The limit of horizon
from the upper works of a submarine is in the neighborhood of five
miles. It is doubtful that numbers and types of ships could be
accurately determined at a much greater distance than eight miles.


  p. 1406 (#324)                      #

1406
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
If the submarines are sighted by the enemy and forced under, their
usefulness as scouts is greatly reduced, but their function as a
distant screen still remains. Scouting and screening ahead is
really dependent on the speed of the main body. If that is low
enough there is no reason why submarines could not be used as
a screen of a slow train or troop transport. From a position well
ahead they might easily reduce the attacking force to numbers that
the escort could control.
One bad feature of using submarines with a merchant convoy
is that to the average merchant master all submarines are danger-
ous. This was forcibly brought home during the war when 0-6
was nearly sunk by the gunfire of her own convoy. The sub-
marine has no friends during hostilities. There is, however, a
definite place for submarines in scouting and screening operations.
Operations against enemy communications are feasible if prop-
erly carried out. Submarines can and will sink enemy ships carry-
ing stores and munitions. The Germans gave submarines a black
eye by doing just this in an unlawful and cruel manner, but the
British accomplished it in the Sea of Marmora without raising any
cries of horror and other nations will use this type of vessel for
the same thing. The United States refused to become a party to
a treaty to abolish submarines, because we could see legitimate
uses for them in this very line.
If you should read “operations against enemy communications”
and think that the cutting of transoceanic cables is meant, please
cast it from your mind. The submarine of Jules Verne has not
been developed in the United States Navy. We can not go to the
bottom and open a door to the sea, allowing our personnel to cut
cables or to hunt submarine game with air rifles. One of our early
submarines, G-3, was fitted with such a compartment and was fitted
with wheels like the famous Nautilus, but this type has long since
been abandoned and the space thus used made available for tor-
pedoes.
Mining from submarines was developed by both the Germans
and British during the World War. It has the element of surprise
attached to it that is so necessary for successful submarine oper-
ations. A submarine mine layer can lay mines just after the
sweepers have reported “all clear” and no one will be the wiser
until he chances to explode one against his bow. Attempts have
use


  p. 1407 (#325)                      #

1925)
1407
Submarine Capabilities and Limitations
been made to obtain funds for development of this type, but as yet
without success. There is no doubt that these boats will be used in
the next war and that success will crown their efforts. In the mean-
time, our Navy is not learning to build or operate mine-laying
submarines and will be that much behind when the time comes.
During the war a good many “stunts” were done with sub-
marines which proved that they have values other than those
usually attributed to them. Several British submarines passed
under the mine fields of the Dardanelles. After entering the Sea
of Marmora and the Bosphorus, these boats were of great value
in cutting communications between Asia and Europe, blowing up
bridges and sinking transports. A submarine, being able to oper-
ate in three planes, can introduce its own element of surprise quite
frequently. The Germans landed spies on the coast of Ireland
and went in to get information from spies already ashore. The
result of this kind of work was apparent and it can be repeated.
A submarine reconnaissance of a port or fortification can be and
has been made, but the value of the information gained in this way
must not be placed too high. It must be remembered that the
observer is looking with one eye from a very low position and he
gets no perspective. The magnification of a periscope is only six
diameters and the details that are missed will materially affect
the value of the report. Certain information may be obtained,
however, and under certain conditions this might be a valuable
method of scouting.
There are many other methods of using submarines, some of
which may be revolutionary, and no attempt is made here to list
them all. The only excuse for this paper is to try to give the
service a general idea of our capabilities and of our corresponding
limitations. When submarines have been with the fleet a few
years longer and have learned more about themselves, the officers
of the fleet will have learned a correspondingly larger amount.
Until this happy day arrives, please do not look on us with horror
or disgust but try to remember that a submarine is built for certain
definite functions and to obtain those had to sacrifice certain fea-
tures which are desirable and without which our limitations are
great. Later development is bound to bring improvement but we
now have submarines which have high value in their own sphere
and as we progress in their use this sphere will widen considerably.
vulg.


  p. 1408 (#326)                      #

THE SALVAGE OF S - 19
By COMMANDER ROBERT B. HILLIARD (CC), U. S. NAVY
DROBABLY no two stranded vessels present the same prob-
:P lems in the matter of salvage. Each case will have individual
difficulties which cannot be foreseen and which previous ex-
perience will not entirely dispel, but it is doubtful if there is any
more refractory combination than that of a submarine and a
sandy beach. There is something about the circular section with
the square duct keel and the bilge keels of the submarine which
makes the grasp of the sand very hard to break.
The U. S. S. S-19 went ashore at the entrance to Nauset Har-
bor, near Orleans, Massachusetts, on the eastern shore of Cape
Cod, during the early morning of January 13, 1925. The life boat
from the Nauset Coast Guard Station reached the stranded vessel
that morning, after having been first capsized in the rough sea
that was running. However, as the submarine was in no immedi-
ate danger, the captain and crew decided to remain on board until
efforts could be made to work off the beach. The same day, the
coast guard cutters Acushnet and Tampa, and the navy tug
Wandank arrived on the scene.
On the fourteenth, an unsuccessful effort was made to get a
six-inch wire line on the submarine. The Department had placed
a contract with the Merritt-Chapman and Scott wrecking company
for salvage operations, and the company's wrecking tug Resolute,
with Wreckmaster Foster, arrived in the afternoon. Incidentally,
the company had offered to sign a "no cure, no pay” contract for
$150,000, but the Department had decided that the legality of
such a contract was doubtful, and had let the contract by the day,
paying a fixed price per diem for the use of each tug, with an
extra charge for wreckers and gear used. Probably the most
equitable form of salvage contract is the "no cure, no pay” type
with cost to be fixed on completion by a board of arbitration.
Such a type is in common use in commercial work but would prob-
ably be impracticable for the Navy.


  p. 1409 (#327)                      #

1925)
1409
The Salvage of "S-19"
The Resolute succeeded in getting a ten-inch manila line on the
submarine and pulled for an hour, with no result save to heel the
ship to about 35°. In view of this inclination and the good weather
at that time, it was decided to remove the crew and their effects.
This was done on the fourteenth and fifteenth, and the crew was
sent to the Boston Yard, with the exception of the commanding
officer, Lieutenant C. F. Martin, and six of his men, who re-
mained on the Wandank to assist in the operations.
The condition of the submarine's tanks at that time was as
follows: Fuel oil, full; main lubricating, full; fresh water, half
full; battery fresh water, full; auxiliary, empty; regulating, empty;
trims, empty; main ballast, nearly empty.
On the fifteenth, the Resolute and Wandank pulled in tandem,
and the Wandank parted an eight-inch manila line. The wrecking
company's tug I. J. Merritt arrived in the afternoon and pulled in
tandem with the Resolute.
MERRITT
S-19
Eel or Special
Salvage anchor
Free Cath
Kanualer
24 Fathoms _15 Manila
Windlass
Towing
Bridle
Beach purchase
L wire Proventor
parts sa Manila Diagram 1
On the sixteenth, forty tons of oil and water were pumped out
of the submarine, and it was estimated that she would float at a
draft of about fifteen feet. It was decided to use a beach purchase
on the Merritt. As the stern of the submarine was farthest out,
the hauling line, 400 fathoms of fifteen-inch cable-laid manila, was
secured to the after lifting shackle of the submarine, with a wire
preventer to the towing bridle. This hauling line was taken to
the Merritt's after bitts. The Merritt was moored with her own
anchors, and a 200-fathom fifteen-inch manila line was carried
ahead to a 7,000-pound Eel salvage anchor. This line was taken
to a beach purchase of seven parts of five and one-half inch
manila on the Merritt's deck, and thence to a windlass. (Dia-
gram I)
The Tampa and Acushnet were released. A great deal of diffi-
culty was experienced in running lines, owing to the absence of a
satisfactory power boat. A really efficient power boat is one of
the prime essentials of salvage operations.


  p. 1410 (#328)                      #

1410
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The layout of gear adopted on the sixteenth was retained
throughout the operations, except that the scope of the hauling line
was increased to 500 fathoms, and an additional Eel anchor, for-
ward line of 200 fathoms of fifteen-inch manila, and beach pur-
chase, were fitted. Continual difficulty was experienced with the
parting of the manila hauling line close to the submarine, ap-
parently due to submerged wreckage, but this was avoided by
tailing the line with 500 feet of wire. The Merritt, which devel-
oped about 1,200 horsepower, hauled in on the beach purchase and
went ahead on her engines at the same time, when pulling. The
tension on the fifteen-inch manila was very great ; oil dripped from
it continuously, and the circumference was reduced from fifteen
inches to about thirteen and a half inches.
The submarine was apparently on, or close to, a bar which was
almost dry at low water. A beach patrol was established to pre-
vent unauthorized persons from approaching the vessel. How-
ever, there was generally a surf breaking close to the ship, so that
access was difficult, except near high water when the weather was
exceptionally good. Whenever it was possible to get aboard.
soundings were taken, and an inspection made of the interior. No
water was entering the hull, a very encouraging fact.
Pulling was continued on the tides throughout January with the
gear described, but there were frequent interruptions due to the
parting of lines. As these accidents almost always occurred during
rough weather, when the chances were best for moving the sub-
marine, it was apparent that the methods in use were faulty.
Finally, late in January, the lines carried away once more, and,
on January 30, the submarine moved 150 feet further inshore. A
change in the method of operations was essential.
The Resolute was relieved by the Commissioner, a smaller tug,
to reduce the cost of operation. This had some disadvantages, as
the Commissioner was unable to ride out rough weather, and had
to run for shelter when such weather seemed probable. This in-
volved delay, as a tender was needed to haul out the Merritt's gear.
On January 31, the submarine rested inside the bar, with her
bow to seaward. It was estimated that she was sunk about eight
feet in the sand, that she would have to be moved out about
600 feet before she would float, and that she was about 2,300 feet
from the bluff at the shore line. It was determined to run a haul-


  p. 1411 (#329)                      #

1925]
1411
The Salvage of “S-19"
ing line from shore. Meanwhile, the Merritt's lines had been
re-laid, the hauling line being passed around the submarine's gun
foundation and secured to the bullnose.
Preparations were begun for the shore station on February 4.
A large buoy, with three tons buoyancy, was planted in twenty
feet of water and secured with four Baldt anchors, from 4,800 to
7,000 pounds. Five thousand feet of six-inch plow steel wire was
secured to the gun foundation on the submarine and led out
through a block on the buoy and back to the bluff. A “box," or
purchase, composed of two four-sheave steel blocks, was provided,
the outboard block being secured with an oak toggle to the six-inch
line, and the end of the purchase taken to a hoisting engine. The
engine and the inboard block of the box were secured by a six-inch
Plank walk way
Box
III
of san ft b'wire
Toggle
Hoisting Engine
5-19
Dead man
Shea ve
Diagrom a
wire line to a "dead man” sunk fifteen feet in a trench 100 yards
back from the edge of the bluff. A plank walkway was run under
the box and a sheave was provided at the edge of the bluff to pre-
vent the lines from burying in the ground. (Diagram 2)
A shanty was run up in three days for shelter of the wrecking
crew of nine men. A field radio set was installed for communi-
cation with the wrecking tugs and was very useful, though not
altogether reliable. A connection was also made to the coast
guard telephone line, connecting with the North Truro radio
station.
The preparations were made rapidly, and on February 8 and 9
the hauling line was run. From that time on, a strain was kept on
the shore line continuously, and slack was taken in as it appeared.
A steam pressure of eighty pounds was used on the hoisting en-


  p. 1412 (#330)                      #

1412
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
gine, which was estimated to give a pull of about twenty-seven
tons on the six-inch line. Progress was slow but continuous.
Probably the greater part of the movement obtained was due to
the tugs, but the shore line assured that none of the distance gained
would be lost due to parting lines, or heavy weather forcing the
tugs to drop their gear.
On February 16, a third hauling line was made fast to the sub-
marine. A six-inch fifty-foot wire bridle was run around the con-
ning tower with a wire preventer to the after lifting shackle; then
100 feet of four-inch wire, doubled, was brought forward from the
bridle and secured to the bullnose; to it was shackled a double line
of ten-inch manila, each leg consisting of four 120-fathom lengths ;
Share Lone
MERRITT
5-19
Puutalbums aimaalla derbied
Wandank
wire tewenste
na wser
Diagram 3
Towing Engine
Baldt anches
finally, this was shackled to the end of the Wandank's six-inch
wire towing cable. The Wandank was moored with her own
anchors, and with two Baldt anchors on 120-fathom ten-inch
manila lines, to the southward and outboard of the Merritt. (Dia-
gram 3) She pulled by going ahead on her engines and by taking
a strain on her towing engine. She developed about 1,700 horse-
power, and obtained the best results by surging, pulling and slack-
ing off, alternately. Later, her towing engine was disabled and
she rigged deck tackles to replace it.
There are two theories as to the amount of power to be used in
such operations. The first is that the more power is developed,
, the more results are obtained. This seems reasonable on the face


  p. 1413 (#331)                      #

1925)
1413
The Salvage of "S-19"
of it, but most wreckers consider that it can be overdone. They
believe that too much pull tends to bury the wreck in the sand.
Unless it is moving freely, they do not believe in trying to force
the action; and, in any case, they prefer to stop the pull shortly
after high tide, to permit the sand to wash away from the path of
the wreck. In the present instance, the contours of the bar and
the sand beach were changing continuously. The higher tides were,
of course, helpful, but far more assistance was obtained from
rough seas which broke over the submarine. When a high tide
combined with a heavy easterly sea, the conditions were ideal.
An inspection on March 13 showed that there was water and
probably some sand in the main ballast and auxiliary tanks. It
was thought to be due to leaky kingstons. The tanks were pumped
out and put under air pressure, but no assurance was felt that
they could be kept empty. If flooded, they would increase the
draft to about eighteen feet and, of course, require a longer pull to
float the vessel. No other leaks developed.
On March 15, the submarine heeled to 80°. She righted to about
60° on the sixteenth, but on the seventeenth she went over again
to 90°. As a result, a great deal of acid was spilled in the bilges,
from the batteries, and there were short circuits on the switchboard.
Ranges were established about half a mile away on the beach
both to the north and to the south of the submarine. It was pos-
sible to measure the movement of the ship with surprising accu-
racy. The accompanying table shows the progress made, together
with the weather conditions and the height of tide at each move.
Date
February 5
February 7
February 12
February 24
February 25
February 26
March 2
March 7
March 14
March 16
March 17
March 18
Movement
50 feet
15 feet
75 feet
10 feet
70 feet
60 feet
14 feet
21 feet
80 feet
4 feet
15 feet
Off
Weather
Easterly wind, rough sea
Easterly wind, moderate sea
S.E. gale, rough sea
Fresh N.E. wind, moderate sea
Fresh E. wind, moderate sea
Fresh S.E. wind, moderate E. sea
Light W. wind, moderate E. swell
Light N. wind, moderate E. swell
S.W. gale, moderate S. sea
Light variable wind, smooth sea
Light S. wind, smooth sea
Fresh N. wind, moderate E. sea
Height
of Tide
5.4 feet
5.9 feet
6.0 feet
7.4 feet
7.1 feet
6.6 feet
5.3 feet
5.5 feet
6.4 feet
6.3 feet
6.2 feet
6.1 feet


  p. 1414 (#332)                      #

1414
[Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The highest tide for February was 7.5 feet on the twenty-third ; the
highest for March up to the eighteenth was 6.4 feet on the four-
teenth and fifteenth.
On March 18, at 5:20 P.M., the submarine was floated. The
shore line was cut with an oxy-acetylene torch at 6:10. March
19, there was a dense fog and a heavy sea, and the ship was an-
chored out in deep water. On the twentieth, the weather improved
and the submarine was towed into Provincetown, where she was
thoroughly inspected, the acid was pumped out of her bilges as
far as possible, and what remained was neutralized with washing
soda. She was towed up that night to Boston and was docked next
morning.
The payment to the wrecking company under the contract has
not been settled at the time of writing, but it is estimated that the
cost of salvage will amount to about $200,000. The cost of repairs
and docking is estimated at $100,000. These figures do not in-
clude any allowance for the services of the navy tugs which took
part in the salvage operations, but they do include the cost of gear
used by the tugs and drawn specifically for the job. As the con-
tract price of the submarine was $1,720,000, it will be seen that the
salvage operations were well worth their cost.
The lessons to be drawn from this instance may be summarized
as follows. As soon as it becomes apparent that the wreck cannot
be towed off by tugs in the ordinary manner, beach purchases
should be gotten out. I believe this should be done not later than
a week after stranding. The crew should be removed as soon as
practicable, in the case of a submarine, but a detail should be re-
tained in the vicinity to assist in the operations. Efficient power
boats should be provided for running lines. Wrecking tugs should
be provided which are capable of retaining their station in rough
weather. Tenders should be provided capable of supplying all
needs of the wrecking tugs and of handling heavy lines and an-
chors. They should also be capable of remaining on station in
moderate weather. If two wrecking tugs are available, one should
keep a steady strain on the line, the other should surge. No at-
tempt should be made to get too much distance on a single tide,
and, unless the wreck is moving freely, pulling should cease shortly
after high tide. With these precautions taken, nothing remains
but to sit tight and wait for a rough sea setting onto the beach.


  p. 1415 (#333)                      #

HOW THE NAVY HELPED THEM HOME
LIEUTENANT (jg) F. V. BARKER, U. S. Navy
THILE the Richmond was lying off Salem Willows, Massa-
chusetts, taking part in a Fourth of July celebration, an
innocent looking despatch was received from the depart-
ment asking when it would be convenient for Admiral Magruder
to confer with representatives of the Army Air Service in con-
nection with a naval patrol of the North Atlantic, or sixth division
of the Army World Flight. Immediately the scuttlebutt began
rumbling and rumoring, and a week of radio silence at sea off
Provincetown during one of the summer search problems gave
ample opportunity for speculation as to the future. Even the
inost exaggerated fantasy of the ship's recognized dope spreader
failed to approach what was in store for that little squadron of de-
stroyers and light cruisers during the forty-odd days which
brought the Navy before the eyes of the public as nothing else has
done since the war.
Newport was selected as the most convenient place for all con-
cerned, and at the conference on board the Richmond it was de-
cided that, to safeguard the flight and maintain proper communi-
cations, four light cruisers and a division of destroyers would be
desirable. The Richmond, Raleigh, Trenton and Milwaukee were
recommended for this duty by Commander Light Cruiser Divi-
sions, the first three to rendezvous at Rosyth, Scotland, on July
28, and the last named to proceed up the North Atlantic coast to
Labrador, establishing bases en route. Operations approved this
plan except that two destroyers of the European squadron, the
Billingsley and Reid, were substituted for the Trenton which was
not available at the time. It was necessary to cut short the
Raleigh's shake-down cruise in order for her to participate in this
duty, but it is believed the change of itinerary turned out every bit
as interesting, at any rate more instructive than the one originally
planned.


  p. 1416 (#334)                      #

1416
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The next ten days were busy ones, every hour one of hurried
preparation. Special chart portfolios covering a part of the world
seldom visited by American men-of-war had to be ordered. Aero-
logical personnel and equipment were received. Stores and sup-
plies were rushed from the Boston and New York Yards.
Communication schedules were arranged and tests planned. As
thorough an overhaul as the time allowed was made, particular
attention being paid to the radio material, on which depended to a
great extent the success of the naval patrol and the flight itself.
Finally the Richmond fueled to capacity, and at 0500, July 21,
stood out to sea full of passengers, stores and hopes for a quick
completion of the duty ahead. Representatives of the Associated
Press, the United Press, the Universal News Service and the
Washington Evening Star and camera men from the International
News Reel and Pathé companies comprised the civilian personnel,
as fine a bunch of shipmates as could be desired.
On the third day out the course was changed to the northward,
and the Richmond settled down on the long uphill climb along the
great circle course to Pentland Firth at 20 knots. Although the
transatlantic steamer lane was followed, traffic was remarkably
light, only two vessels being sighted. The sixth day gave a taste
of the weather to be experienced the greater part of the weeks
ahead, chilly and foggy. The fog lifted nicely just before the Butt
of Lewis was due to be picked up, and the run through Pentland
Firth was made under glorious weather conditions. The sea fowl
had a great time racing the ship, keeping abreast with no apparent
effort. A common puffin misjudged the speed while crossing the
bow, collided with the forestay and broke its neck. The bird's
coloring was tropically brilliant and the beak more like that of a
parrot than a seagoing duck.
The headlands of the Firth of Forth were picked up about 0800,
July 28, in a drizzling rain which held during the entire thirty-six
hours the ship was anchored a mile to seaward of the huge bridge
across the firth. The Raleigh was anchored a thousand yards
nearer the bridge with the two destroyers close by. While the
admiral and the commanding officers of the four ships held a con-
ference with Major Davidson, military attaché at the American
Embassy in London, regarding the disposition of the ships for the
hops from Hull to Kirkwall and Kirkwall to Hornafjord, Iceland,


  p. 1417 (#335)                      #

1925]
1417
How the Navy Helped Them Home
all hands except the few unfortunates with the duty went ashore
to see Edinburgh and experiment with the rate of exchange. The
weather was too vile for any sight-seeing or picture-taking, but,
then, no one really wanted to indulge in such outdoor sports when
those indoors were more attractive.
As a result of the conference, the Raleigh, Billingsley and Reid
sailed that afternoon to take stations between the Orkneys and
Hornafjord on the southeast coast of Iceland. The Richmond,
not having so far to steam to her station, stayed at anchor off
Rosyth until the next day, fueling to capacity once again. About
dinner time all preparations for getting underway had been made
and the order to heave around was expected any minute when a
radio came through from one of the British destroyers, which had
been of so much help in handling radio traffic, stating that a lieu-
tenant was on the dock trying to get back to the ship. A hurried
muster accounted for all the lieutenants but disclosed the fact that
one of the newspapermen was A.O.L., one who had run down to
Hull in an attempt to scoop the others. The admiral's barge, on
its way in, passed a shore boat bringing out the absentee, and at
2030 the Forth bridge was fading into the dusk astern. A course
was shaped back to Pentland Firth in that same drizzle with four
additional passengers on board, two representatives of the Hearst
papers in London, the Paris correspondent of the Chicago Tribune
and Major Davidson, and the flight duty was on in earnest.
The morning of July 30 dawned bright and clear, and the fore-
noon watch found the Richmond standing in through one of the
entrances to Scapa Flow, the great British war harbor. She an-
chored off Houton Bay, south across the main island of the Ork-
neys from Kirkwall, in Admiral Rodman's wartime anchorage.
The scenery was lovely with green rolling hills laid out into small
fields of different colors with not a tree in sight. Those fields not
under cultivation were kept neatly mowed by the hundreds of
sheep and cows, and rabbits were everywhere in evidence. The
hills are perpetually backed with ever-changing cloud effects which
made the late sunsets beautiful indeed.
Since the fliers were expected that same afternoon, working
parties were sent ashore immediately in the motor launches to lay
out moorings for the three American planes, with an additional one
for the Italian pilot, in sheltered Houton Bay. Throughout the


  p. 1418 (#336)                      #


U.S.N. Official Photo
BLUEJACKETS FROM THE "U.S.S. RICHMOND" GASSING THE PLANE "Boston,” 30 JULY, 1924, AT SCAPA
Flow, SCOTLAND


  p. 1419 (#337)                      #

1925)
1419
How the Navy Helped Them Home
afternoon word of their take-off from Hull was awaited anxiously,
and the hope that they had started that day almost had been given
up when a much delaved despatch was received from Wick Radio
telling of their departure. Only a few minutes later three specks
were sighted on the southern horizon, specks which rapidly took
the form of three planes flying in a V formation. Word of their
appearance reached all parts of the ship in an incredibly short
time, and soon the admiral, ill with a touch of the grippe, was on
the bridge in his dressing gown waving them greetings while all
hands were on deck strangely quiet at their first glimpse of the
Army World Flight. Flying low over the masts and upper works
of the scuttled Hindenburg, the planes picked up the moorings and
headed with precision for Houton Bay. Smith in the Chicago
landed first, followed a few minutes later by Wade in the Boston.
Eric Nelson in the New Orleans was not sure of the landing and
circled the bay once before gliding down. The photographers were
rewarded for their long wait, on the dock, and the ship slowly re-
turned to normalcy.
The fiers turned-to right away, refueling the planes, assisted
by the ship's working party, and completed their overhaul before
coming aboard to get cleaned up and for dinner. There was some
rivalry in the wardroom as to which would have the privilege
of turning over rooms and bunks and gear to them. One of their
first desires was an honest-to-goodness American cigarette, and,
similarly, their conversation at dinner tended not toward the feats
behind but rather to the expected joys of being in the States again
which indicated a slight touch of nostalgia. Although pretty well
tired out and anticipating an early start next morning, all of them
sat up after the formalities of being photographed in the long twi-
light were over, glad to talk to people who had seen the Great
White Way only a few weeks before. The sleeping arrangements
were changed at the last minute so that each got a bunk in the sick
bay, it being decided that there would be less noise, and therefore
more rest for them, in that part of the ship.
The weather conditions along the line of flight next morning
did not warrant a start, which gave the fliers an unexpected but
greatly appreciated day of relaxation. Heretofore, at every stop,
their time had been planned for them, and they had felt in duty
bound to attend the numerous functions arranged in their honor;


  p. 1420 (#338)                      #

1420
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
as guests of another branch of the service they felt, and rightly,
that they could make themselves at home. That forenoon went to
a visit to the Hindenburg, much to the delight of the news reel
cameramen who exposed many feet of film to be rushed back to
the States through England. About lunch time a British naval
seaplane landed near the Richmond and semaphored a message of
goodbye and good luck, departing within a few minutes, which was
a nice piece of sportsmanship. The afternoon was devoted to ex-
ploring quaint Kirkwall with its ancient church and narrow streets.
The weather the second day was unkind also, but provided an op-
portunity for an Army-Navy golf match over a course on which
the fairways give no trouble, thanks to the grazing habits of sheep.
Captain Cotten and Commander Keppler came aboard victorious
over Major Davidson and Smith.
On Saturday, August 2, the fliers left the ship after an early
breakfast feeling well buoyed up at the weather prospects ahead
and anxious to be moving again. Following an hour of tuning
up, the three planes slowly came out of Houton Bay in column
and taxied over the glistening oily waters of Scapa Flow into the
morning sun. On account of the very light breeze blowing the
heavily laden planes had trouble in taking off. Nelson was the
first to leave the water, and, by taking advantage of the New Or-
leans' propeller wash, Wade was able to get clear a minute or so
later. Smith had the greatest difficulty with the balky Chicago.
Only the skillful jockeying of Nelson and Wade to give him the
greatest benefits of their propeller wash and pontoon wakes as
they skimmed the water enabled Smith to hop off. Finally, at
about 0930, the three planes got into cruising formation, and,
circling the ship with a wave, headed into the northwest. The
Richmond, with a parting salute from her siren, got underway im-
mediately to proceed to Reykjavik, Iceland.
Not long after 1000 a surprise appeared in the form of a des-
patch from Major Davidson, who had remained at Kirkwall,
through Wick Radio, stating that the planes had become separated
in a fog encountered before they were well clear of the Orkneys
and that Smith and Wade were returning to Houton Bay. The
Richmond immediately turned back to Scapa Flow so the Aliers
would have a place to spend the night and to assist in the necessary
refueling. While returning it was a great relief to hear from the


  p. 1421 (#339)                      #

1925]
1421
How the Navy Helped Them Home
first station ship, the Billingsley, lying-to off Sydero Island in the
Faeroes, that Nelson has passed overhead on his way to a success-
ful completion of that hop. Worried about the others, he had
dropped a message asking the destroyer to notify him by whistle
blasts whether or not they had passed. Receiving a negative signal,
he waved them goodbye and speeded on. Later in the afternoon
"anchored as before" to find the Chicago and Boston moored and
the fliers glad to hear that Nelson was safe. It later developed that
Nelson had side slipped into the fog bank which the other two
had avoided by zooming up hurriedly. Not seeing them when he
came clear again, he arrived at the conclusion that they had gone
on and did likewise; they, not seeing him, thought he had crashed
so turned back to get word to Davidson and the Richmond. They
circled over Kirkwall until they attracted Davidson's attention,
and then dropped a message at his feet giving him the information
forwarded to the ship.
The weather conditions on August 3 were much the same as
those of the day before, and again the planes were gotten off the
water only with difficulty and delay. The Raleigh, stationed
twenty-five miles southeast from Hornafjord, and the Reid, mid-
way between there and the Faeroes, had been forwarding reports
throughout the night which indicated a possibility of high winds
along the last part of that leg. The Richmond was well on her
way to Reykjavik again when a priority despatch came through
from the Billingsley announcing that Wade in the Boston had had
to make a forced landing between the Orkneys and the Faeroes,
and was in need of immediate assistance. Smith had circled over-
head to drop a message giving the meager information he liad as
to Wade's position. There followed then some real snappy work ;
within fifteen minutes a despatch was on its way to the States tell-
ing the War Department of the mishap to the Boston, and the other
ships were notified and given their search orders. In a little less
than an hour the Richmond had worked up to 30 knots from 15,
forcing to the limit the cold boilers just cut in; the two scouting
planes on board were being tuned up and got ready to hop off to
assist in the search when Wade's approximate position should be
reached. As the Richmond steamed along to the northward the
weather got worse and worse, the visibility decreasing and the
wind freshening. The Billingsley, racing down from the Faeroes,


  p. 1422 (#340)                      #

1422
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
reported similar conditions, and to add to the general situation, the
Reid reported Smith long overdue with vile weather at her station.
Official despatches were flying back and forth like the ball in a
hard fought tennis match, and the press representatives were filing
two hundred words apiece every time some fresh dope came in.
Things were looking serious until the Raleigh reported Smith's
passing and safe arrival. Having been so far off his course as not
even to sight the Reid, he must have done some very excellent
aerial navigation in a bad wind to have picked up the Raleigh dead
ahead. In connection with this leg of the flight, the Raleigh, in
establishing the base at Hornafjord, had mounted her radio field
set ashore through which she was able to maintain good communi-
cation with the camp on the beach while lying twenty-five miles
out.
Shortly after the report of Smith's arrival was received the
Billingsley flashed the word of sighting the Boston in tow of the
British trawler Rugby of Grimsby. The Richmond already had
launched by boom one of her Voughts with Lieutenant Commander
Leighton, aviation aide to Admiral Magruder, pilot. The sea was
so choppy by this time that the plane could not take off, due to the
fact that spray kept getting into its carburetor. This added to the
difficulties, and, while the ship was maneuvering to hoist the plane
aboard again without smashing it, the Billingsley relieved the
trawler of its tow.
With the VS 3/1 hoisted in, the Richmond proceeded to the de-
stroyer's position. She attempted to work close enough alongside
for a heaving line to be passed for the shifting of the tow line, but
the weather conditions made this extremely dangerous. Finally
the flagship floated a line down to leeward which was picked up by
the Billingsley, and the change of tow was effected. The Boston
was then worked up along the lee side until she was abreast the
starboard catapult. With some difficulty, on account of the mo-
tion, Ogden secured lines to the wing tips, and with still greater
difficulty the plane was fended off while Wade came aboard for a
conference as to its disposition. Even with the care exercised the
plane crashed against the ship's side several times with a force
great enough to crush in the frail wing tips. It was first decided
to dismantle her as far as possible and then sink her. The mere
idea of deserting the ship he had piloted and fussed over for almost


  p. 1423 (#341)                      #

1925]
1423
How the Navy Helped Them Home
three quarters of the way around the world caused Wade so much
pain that the decision was changed. Accordingly, an attempt was
made to hoist her in with the boom used for the Richmond's light
planes. All gasoline, oil and water were drained out and all of
the fliers' gear was removed. Even so, the Boston weighed about
3,500 pounds, a heavy load for the aviation boom. With the two
aviators aboard, a feeling of tenseness was in the air as the boat-
swain gave the signal to the winchman to heave around. As a
strain was being taken the ship began the uproll. The combination
of weight and suction effect between the pontoons and the water
was too much for the boom fittings: the pad eye on the mainmast
to which the boom topping lift is secured carried away, dropping
the plane several feet back into the water. All that prevented a
number of cracked heads was a little foresight and the presence
of that guardian angel whose especial charge is the protection of
sailors, for the rail was crowded with sight-seers. As that heavy
steel boom crashed down on the army plane, ripping through a
wing, smashing a propeller tip and punching a bad hole in the port
pontoon, Wade and Ogden winced as though they, rather than
their ship, had been struck. Again it was decided to abandon the
Boston, and again the decision was changed to give two real men
every chance to complete their undertaking. The hole in the pon-
toon was patched with white lead and canvas and the plane was
dropped aft.
At 2045 the Richmond began steaming for a sheltered bay on
the lee of Sydero Island at speeds varying from 4 to 8 knots with
the sea logged as “rough” and the wind south, force 4-5. Our
army shipmates spent an hour or so watching the Boston ride
smoothly enough in the Richmond's wake before going below for
some much needed food and rest. Not knowing how long they
might have to drift until picked up they had not touched their
emergency rations. Strangely enough, the comparatively easy
corkscrew the Richmond was executing gave them a bad touch of
the hated mal de mer, though the violent motion of the plane dur-
ing its ten hours of drifting had not affected them; they had been
too busy keeping her pointed up into the wind and sea and trying
to repair the broken oil pump which had caused their forced land-
ing to think of being sick.


  p. 1424 (#342)                      #


BA
U.S.N. Official Photo
“USS. BILLINGSLEY" WITH PLANE "Boston" IN Tow AFTER "Boston's" FORCED LANDING OFF THE FAEROES


  p. 1425 (#343)                      #

1925)
1425
How the Navy Helped Them Home
An entry in the log for the morning watch, August 4, gives,
briefly and concisely, the end of a dream for two men :
4:46: About five miles off Sumbo Light, Faero Islands, towing bridle
of U. S. Army plane No. 3, Boston, carried away causing plane to go
adrift. Plane which had list to port settled nose first then turned over,
after part of fuselage, tail and pontoons remaining in sight. 5:10:
Abandoned U. S. Army seaplane No. 3.
Only a few were on deck to watch the Boston slowly drift down
onto the rocks of Sydero Island, and the wisest of these was an
electrician's mate, named Day, who rushed for his camera. His
two exclusive pictures of the sinking of the Boston netted him
enough for at least one good liberty in the States when the Uni-
versal News Service and Pathé representatives began bidding for
the negatives. The two fliers were not notified until breakfast
time when their plane was a small speck on the horizon. Being
good sports, they tried to assume a "Well, that's that” expression,
but it was apparent that their hearts were almost broken by this
last jolt Fate had handed them; they were like lost souls for the
next day and a half. Up to the last minute they had hoped to be
able to make repairs with the spare parts in Iceland and to con-
tinue with their leader.
During the hours in which the radio was "for official use only"
the prolific pens of the six newspaper men had piled up a total of a
little over 8,300 words of press, and the next big item was getting
their stories back to the papers. The “flashes,” short dispatches of
about twenty words giving a meager statement of facts, were
cleared first, in rotation, the order having been determined by
drawing lots. Then the separate stories were cut into “leads” and
"adds” of about 200 words each, which were arranged in that
same order. This prevented one paper from "hogging the air"
with a thousand words or so, and gave all six represented a lead
on which to build a story before the more detailed facts were
received. All these despatches were full of peculiar combinations
of words, as "offhopped,” “downcrashed” and “pro Iceland,” which
the English operators at Wick Radio had some difficulty in re-
ceiving. On the night the Boston was in tow, the radio gunner,
C. H. Ripley, in a fit of insomnia, took the key at 2300. At 0700
next morning he turned it over to one of the regular operators
with slightly over 4,000 words of press and official traffic cleared.


  p. 1426 (#344)                      #

1426
[Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The third start for Reykjavik proved more successful than the
first two, for daylight of August 5 showed ice-capped, mist-
shrouded mountains on the starboard bow and the Billingsley
lying-to off Cape Portland. Later in the morning the Reid was
passed on her station, and at 1300 the Richmond was rolling heav-
ily off the harbor of Reykjavik with Smith and Nelson en route
from Hornafjord in a wind bad enough to carry away the after
fittings of the port main antenna. An hour later the Chicago and
New Orleans were sighted booming along over the mountains to
the southward. Everybody had time to pity Wade and Ogden a
little as they stood on deck taking pictures of the formation, lop-
sided without their plane to complete the V. At 1420 the residents
of the city had one of their biggest thrills when the two planes
circled over the water front and landed in the inner harbor. The
Richmond stood on in and anchored off the breakwater, followed
in a few hours by the Billingsley and Reid, which, indeed, made
August 5 a big day for people who had never seen a plane or a
modern man-of-war before. The Raleigh arrived from the east
coast next day.
Reykjavik is a substantial looking city with its homes and public
buildings of stone. The small number of automobiles have excellent
hard roads and streets on which to run. The cars, together with a
movie theater and modern sporting goods stores, give an old, old
city quite a modern aspect. The inner harbor is always full of
coasting steamers and fishing smacks. Foul bottoms cause no
necessity for a dry dock or a marine railway there on account of
the large rise and fall of tide. A craft with a dirty hull is run on
the beach at high water and careened by tackles with the ebbing
tide as desired. The shops offered plenty in the way of souvenirs,
with sheepskins which had not started to shed, German binoculars
and automatics, and French perfumes, besides “Made in Denmark”
gadgets for the Cook's tourist trade. The one hotel, at which the
fliers made their headquarters, served good meals at reasonable
prices and obeyed implicitly the beer-light wine law of the island,
although the police seemed to be having difficulty with bootleggers
in other parts of the city. No drinks can be ordered in the hotel
dining room after nine P.M., but those with rooms can keep-that
service busy indefinitely. Few of the old native costumes were in
evidence, the girls, really good looking if one likes blondes, wear-


  p. 1427 (#345)                      #

1925)
1427
How the Navy Helped Them Home
ing near-flapper styles. Sprung from a sea-faring race, they must
be taught from infancy never to trust a sailor; in spite of the
highly advertised attraction of a uniform, they were as cool toward
their visitors as blondes are supposed to be. The climate was a
pleasant surprise, the temperature running from 40° to 50° with
plenty of sunshine. In fact, a swimming meet was staged during
the stay of the American ships.
Soon after the squadron assembled in Reykjavik Harbor word
was received from the Gertrude Rask, a Danish steamer char-
tered by the Army to establish a base at Angmagsalik, Greenland,
that she had encountered a thirty-mile-wide band of pack ice off
that port and could proceed at the rate of only about four miles a
day. A later despatch announced that after working fifteen miles
into the pack she was stuck fast and drifting to the southward with
a coal shortage in sight. Four days of those and similar dis-
quieting reports made it an “Out of the trenches by Christmas”
situation. Following numerous conferences three alternatives
were proposed—a direct flight to Angmagsalik dependent upon
the ice conditions in that harbor and the feasibility of transporting
enough gasoline across the pack ice by the cruisers' scouting planes
for refueling ; complete elimination of Angmagsalik as a base and
a flight to the Raleigh to be stationed well clear of the ice south-
east of that place with the attendant dangers of refueling at sea
and lying overnight at the end of a line; or the extremely hazard-
ous direct Alight from Reykjavik to Fredericksdal around Cape
Farewell. Accordingly, the Raleigh was despatched on August 9
with Wade and Lieutenant Commander Leighton on board to pro-
ceed to the vicinity of Angmagsalik and make a reconnoissance of
the coast by plane. Pending her report there was nothing to do in
Reykjavik but further to cement the bonds of friendship at the
Hotel Island.
The Raleigh made a quick run over to Greenland, and the next
day began reporting dense fog and Aoating ice ninety miles south-
east of Angmagsalik. That afternoon, when stopped in a par-
ticularly dense fog bank, she sighted ice close aboard to seaward.
While maneuvering for sea room a large detached hummock
drifted down on her which necessitated backing emergency full
speed, forcing her down onto another hummock on the starboard
quarter and damaging the starboard propellers. This accident


  p. 1428 (#346)                      #


U.S.N. Official Photo
BLUEJACKETS FROM THE “U.S.S. RICHMOND" HAULING Lt. Eric Nelson's PlanE "New ORLEANS" OUT OF WATER AT
REYKJAVIK, ICELAND


  p. 1429 (#347)                      #

1925)
1429
How the Navy Helped Them Home
made her best speed without vibration from 8 to 9 knots. The
Raleigh's radio report of conditions reads, in part:
With great difficulty and several close calls succeeded at nineteen thirty
in passing through long belt of open pack ice without further damage.
Am standing off shore and will approach ice zone tomorrow but if con-
ditions remain at all the same communication by plane with Angmagsalik
will be impossible.
Subsequent reports were every bit as discouraging until 1930,
August 11, when a despatch was received from the Raleigh stat-
ing that her two planes had been able to make a reconnoissance of
the ice pack and of the harbor and containing the further good
news that the Gertrude Rask was at last clear of the ice, heading
north for Angmagsalik again. On the strength of this the small
steamer which had left Reykjavik with coal for the Rask was re-
called, and plans made for the disposition of the station vessels
along the line of flight. Word of the Rask's safe arrival at Ang-
magsalik was received on August 12, together with a report of fine
weather conditions at that place. On that same day one of the
Raleigh's planes landed near the Rask, the first plane to rest on
the icy waters of any of Greenland's harbors. It was immediately
surrounded by curious Eskimos in their frail kayaks.
Although the first general statements as to conditions found by
the Raleigh were encouraging to all those marking time in Iceland,
the later detailed report of what was observed on the aerial sur-
vey was enough to dampen the enthusiasm. That report is quoted
here to illustrate what fortitude Smith and his fellow fliers pos-
sessed, what faith they held in their venture to have decided to
make a six hundred-mile flight across the treacherous northern-
most Atlantic with such bleak inhospitableness and such uncer-
tainty at their destination:
1012: Planes returned from Angmagsalik Leighton and Wade having
inspected harbor and conferred with Schultz. Their report regarding con-
ditions there as follows: "Angmagsalik harbour insufficient size for takeoff
with fuel for Ivigtut. Entrance to harbour close beset with ice, broken
ice in Angmagsalik harbour and all adjacent fjords. Clear spaces amid
ice sufficient for landing with extreme care. Lanes can be freed of ice
by Schultz sufficient to permit planes takeoff with light load. Three lakes
to northward overestimated on chart. Southermost is ice free and large
enough for safe landing any conditions but takeoff possible only with dead
light load. Surroundings of harbour and of lakes rise sharply to approxi-


  p. 1430 (#348)                      #

1430
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
mately fifteen hundred feet necessitating immediate turn after takeoff.
Angmagsalik difficult to identify from seaward. Landmark is Sermilik
Fjord with large and prominent glacier extending into fjord at Petersen's
Bugt. Ikerasarsuak Fjord is not prominent as is obscured by high fore
shore altitude average twenty five hundred feet. Except from almost
directly overhead islands and mainland appear to be continuous. Chart of
Tasiusak accurate but Angmagsalik Harbour not easily picked up. Rask
is moored as shown on large scale chart with cables to land above water.
Ice contour off coast is particularly distinctive sweeping in sharply towards
coast forming large bight with outline as follows: From latitude 65-15
longitude 36-00 west ice line tends approximately northwesterly following
approximately arc of circle twenty five miles radius from center in latitude
65-38 longitude 36-05 thence west and southwest along arc of circle radius
twelve miles from center in latitude 65-15 longitude 37-15 thence approxi-
mately south fourteen miles when dips to southward and apparently
parallels coast line. Outside of iceline bight there is clear water except for
four large detached bergs. Pack broken south of Angmagsalik but solid
along shore line to east and west. Schultz is laying moorings in Tasiusak.
He will have landing lane cleared and will move up and down best landing
lane in motor boat. Unknown whether ice conditions will remain stable.
Schultz says for last two weeks sea at edge of pack has been smooth with
little wind. It was noted today that with moderate northeasterly winds
ceiling was one thousand to two thousand feet while weather inshore was
perfectly clear and calm prevailed at Angmagsalik with visibility well over
fifty miles. Indications are that in lee of ice pack at sea fogs or low
clouds may be expected with strong possibility clear weather inshore.”
Weather foggy here now 1530.
With these details at hand a final conference was called on the
Richmond on August 13. Smith and the admiral and the com-
manding officers of the patrol ships spent the forenoon poring over
charts and weather reports, and finally formulated the plans for
the leg of the flight which was to be a real test for the Douglas
planes and Liberty motors. These plans called for a hop to Ang-
maksalik, a take-off the next morning with just enough fuel to
reach the Raleigh at her station, and refueling to capacity at the
end of her one hundred fifty-yard drift lines. The Billingsley,
Reid and Richmond were to be spaced along the line from Reyk-
javik to the Raleigh's position in the order named, and August 15
was chosen for the attempt. The pontoons and other spare parts
which had been shipped to Iceland months before were loaded
aboard the Richmond that afternoon. Next morning the two de-
stroyers came alongside to have their rapidly decreasing fuel


  p. 1431 (#349)                      #

1925)
1431
How the Navy Helped Them Home
supply bolstered up. As a farewell to that out-of-the-way place,
a reception and dance were held on the flagship. Some of the
townspeople came to dance, some for the refreshments, but the
majority were interestedly curious about the ship and glad for the
opportunity to look here over as few visitors had been on board.
Though only a few of the girls spoke English, they had no trouble
with the American style of dancing, so what looked at first to be a
stupid affair turned out a really good party. When the Richmond
sailed at 1900 the Billingsley was already well on her way to a
point about the middle of the line of flight while the Reid was still
in the harbor making hurried repairs to a section of her port main
steam line which had suffered a casualty as she was getting under-
way that forenoon. That eight hour delay necessitated an ex-
change in the positions of the destroyers.
During the forenoon of August 15 the Richmond reached and
lay-to on her station in latitude 64-22 north ; longitude 32-44 west,
about one hundred seventy miles southeast of Angmagsalik.
Shortly after her arrival a despatch was received from Smith stat-
ing that he had decided to delay the flight one day while the ad-
vance agent on the Gertrude Rask inspected a harbor to the
northward reported to be ice free. The wind had been increasing
right along, and by that time was being logged at fifty miles an
hour. To conserve fuel it was not attempted to keep the ship
pointed up into it; she lay broadside to the wind and sea rolling
heavily. That night a squall carried away the after fittings of the
port main antenna again, and a few minutes later the anemometer
disappeared down to leeward, spinning merrily. Though the de-
stroyers were having fair weather, the Raleigh was in the path of
the same storm, which delayed the start another day. After thirty-
six hours of very uncomfortable rolling and when a particularly
bad lurch had cleared one end of the wardroom table, piling half
a dozen of the fourth ward with coffee and dessert into a corner,
one of the newspaper men rushed back to the radio room to send
a despatch to his paper saying that the Navy was suffering the real
hardships of the world flight. He was not seen for the next four
meals.
The new ice-free harbor did not turn out so well, and, the
weather conditions at the important end of the Reykjavik-Ang-
maksalik leg still remaining bad, Smith advised the admiral early


  p. 1432 (#350)                      #

1432
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
on August 17 that he had definitely decided to abandon Angmag-
salik as a base. He was going to try the long eight hundred-mile
jump direct to Fredericksdal. Orders were issued stationing the
Reid, Billingsley, Raleigh, Barry and Richmond from east to west
between Reykjavik and Cape Farwell one hundred to one hundred
fifty miles apart. The Islands Falk, a Danish battleship on an in-
spection cruise through Greenland, had volunteered to act as sta-
tion ship at the destination. All the vessels of the patrol got
underway for their new stations immediately upon receipt of the
movement order so the stage would be set for August 18. The
Richmond, proceeding to her position about seventy miles ENE.
of Cape Farewell, soon ran into glorious sunshine and a calm sea
which gave an opporunity to get the main antenna up again. So
clear was it that day and Monday that “Greenland's icy moun-
tains” were plainly visible at distances of from fifty to seventy
miles.
The hourly reports from the different station ships throughout
the night of August 17-18 indicated perfect flying weather to fol-
low. As the morning and forenoon dragged along with no report
of the departure of the planes from Reykjavik, it was amusing to
read the descriptions of the weather conditions forwarded to
Smith; each ship seemed to be trying to urge him on with state-
ments that almost reached the poetic at times. Finally, at 1020,
a despatch was received from Reykjavik radio to the effect that,
while attempting to take off in the rather choppy sea running in
the harbor, the Chicago had carried away her front pontoon
spreader bar and the New Orleans had damaged her propeller.
Spares for these parts were on the Richmond at the far end of the
line, so she had to make a fourth start for Iceland, following back
the route later to be taken by the planes so as to speak the other
patrol vessels.
The Raleigh was ordered to take the position vacated by the
flagship while the Billingsley and Reid were each moved one sta-
tion to the westward, the Barry remaining number four ship. As
the last named was to proceed to Pictou, Nova Scotia, as soon as
the flight had passed, it was decided to transfer Ogden to her at
this stage of the game. Some difficulty was experienced in making
contact that evening so that it was quite dark when her lights
were picked up. The destroyer lowered a boat which pulled up


  p. 1433 (#351)                      #

1925)
1433
How the Navy Helped Them Home
alongside the starboard torpedo casemate in the glare of the Rich-
inond's searchlights. · After saying goodbye to his shipmates of
two weeks Ogden dropped down a Jacob's ladder with his baggage,
and was bobbing along toward the Barry almost before those tak-
ing in the movies on deck realized what was going on. Somewhat
later the Raleigh was intercepted and Lieutenant Commander
Leighton returned. About this time it was considered, to con-
serve fuel, to send the spare parts on from the Richmond's posi-
tion by seaplane. Later weather conditions made this a risky
undertaking, and eventually the plan was discarded. Reykjavik
was reached the second time during the forenoon watch on August
20. The spare parts were sent ashore immediately, not only those
needed to effect the repairs on the planes, but everything which
had been loaded aboard a week before so that there would be no
return in case of further mishaps. As Locatelli, the Italian ace
attempting a flight to South America, had caught up with the
Americans through this last delay by a direct flight from the
Faeroes, he was granted permission to take advantage of the naval
patrol. Accordingly, in exchange for the spare parts sent ashore,
the Richmond received on board an additional passenger in the
person of Lieutenant Silvio Marescalchi, of the Italian Navy, and
the few emergency rations and small spares carried by him as
advance agent for his countryman. Besides being an ardent ad-
mirer of Locatelli and one of his best friends, Lieutenant Ma-
rescalchi is the son of the man who constructed the Italian plane.
The plane was originally designed for Amundsen's contemplated
polar flight which fell through, it is believed, for lack of funds.
Upon the return of the admiral from a final conference with Smith,
the Richmond got underway for her new station about seventy
miles southwest of Reykjavik.
With the repairs to the planes completed, August 21 was def-
initely set for the flight from Iceland to Greenland. Because there
had been some delay in getting the weather reports through for
the previous attempt, no chances were taken the night of August
20-21. Voluntarily, the flag aviation aide, the flag communication
officer, the ship's radio officer and the radio gunner spent the night
in the radio room receiving the reports from the other four Ameri-
can ships and the Islands Falk, recapitulating them and forward-
ing them to Smith. That kept the coffee percolater bubbling con-


  p. 1434 (#352)                      #

1434
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
tinuously, but it meant that, if the start should be delayed, it would
not be because the fliers did not know the weather conditions ahead.
All the ships reported ideal flying weather with the exception of
a little uncertainty at the far end. Smith had intended to start at
0300, Iceland time, or 0500 ship's time. 0500, 600, 0630 rolled
around with no word of their departure; visions of another crash
with the attendant delay had begun to take form when a flash came
through from Reykjavik radio stating that planes two and four
and Locatelli had hopped off. Again, as was the case in the Ork-
neys, the report was so much delayed that the fliers were almost
due before the word was received.
Immediately the Richmond put up a mighty pillar of smoke to
guide them, and hoisted one of the largest flags on board at the
fore as a signal indicating unchanged weather ahead. As the
planes had no radio, though commonly supposed to have, a set of
Aag and whistle signals had been prearranged to notify the fliers of
any change in conditions after their departure. “They're off !"
spread around the ship like wildfire and brought all hands on deck
more quickly than an emergency drill ever did. Breakfast was
completely forgotten while everybody stared hard at the horizon
hoping to be the first to sing out that the planes were in sight.
About 0730 a speck was picked up by the lookouts on the bridge
which rapidly assumed the form of Locatelli's queerly shaped
monoplane with its two engines mounted in tandem above the
wing, a propeller at each end of the unit. Right away the Rich-
mond steamed at full speed on the course to the next station vessel
so the planes could check their compasses. All of that started a
low hum of excitement which steadily grew as two more specks
were sighted. It was a much different sensation to watch those
tiny machines miles at sea than to be anchored in some harbor
when they passed overhead. On account of the great weight of
his seaplane, Locatelli had to fly much faster than the Americans
to maintain his altitude, which made the scene resemble a race.
With a nonchalant wave he was gone, his assistant pilot in the
cockpit and his two mechanics standing by the engines. It was a
real thrill when Smith passed so close that his features could be
made out, set and determined, eyes straight ahead, with the merest
wave to the bridge. Arnold, however, stood up grinning happily
and throwing kisses to everybody. Then old Eric Nelson flew so


  p. 1435 (#353)                      #

1925)
1435
How the Navy Helped Them Home
low and close that it looked for a moment as though he were going
to foul the starboard main shrouds. The movie men were crank-
ing away furiously and every camera on the ship was in evidence.
The pilot of the New Orleans saluted the admiral and the captain
and then centered his attention on getting back into formation be-
hind Smith while Harding gave the old highball and his lips could
be seen framing a yell which could not be heard. Only when the
planes were again small specks on the horizon was a cold break-
fast turned to.
Knowing the approximate speed of the planes and the distances
between ships, it was possible to figure out pretty closely when they
were due to be sighted all along the line. For a few minutes be-
fore that time the deck outside the radio room would become
crowded while a feeling of tenseness could be felt in the air. As
the seconds ticked by a restless murmur would spring up until the
word would come out: "Sighted by the Reid; abeam of her now;
passed out of sight.” Then the crowd would drift back to its vari-
ous duties for another hour and a half. Shortly before noon the
Barry reported the two army planes abeam and sixteen minutes
later their passing out of sight. From that time on the weather on
the Raleigh's station and at Fredericksdal began to change for the
worse with fog and light drizzle and poor landing conditions. The
two destroyers of the European squadron were en route to the
British Isles while the Barry and Richmond were steaming on
down along the line of flight. When the schedule called for a flash
from the last American ship in line the deck near the center of
information was jamined. The Raleigh did not see the planes nor
even hear them. It was very apparent that afternoon what feeling
toward the success of the flight had developed among the personnel
of the naval patrol, how fully they considered it as much their
undertaking as the Army's from the interest shown in the safe
arrival of the Chicago and New Orleans at Fredericksdal. Just
about the time the wise-crackers were beginning to frame puns
about Cape Farewell a little despatch from the Islands Falk, via
the Milwaukee at Ivigtut, “1021 Plane number two arrived Fred-
ericksdal Okay 1530," dispelled some of the gloom. Forty-five
minutes later everybody was all smiles at the same news of plane
number four. Smith and Nelson had spine-chilling stories to tell
of dodging around icebergs in the fog, of becoming separated and


  p. 1436 (#354)                      #

1436
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
not knowing whether or not they might crash into each other at the
next turn, of finally sighting the smoke from the Danish ship
through a rift in the fog bank with the great sensation of security.
In general, the interest felt toward the army fliers overshadowed
that held for the stranger; it is feared that his well-being was
momentarily forgotten by many during the period anxiety was
felt for the safety of Smith and Nelson and later when their suc-
cess was the topic of the day. Marescalchi wandering about the
decks, pale and nervous, suddenly brought to a realization of the
fact that Locatelli had not been reported for some time. It seemed
that the Richmond was to be an unlucky influence when three
planes were involved in a leg of the flight. The other patrol ves-
sels were ordered to keep a close lookout for the Italian until it
was known that he must have landed somewhere, due to fuel
shortage. For awhile hope was held that, with his greater cruis-
ing radius, Locatelli had proceeded on to Labrador when he found
such poor weather conditions off the southern tip of Greenland.
However, a despatch from the Islands Falk stating that some
natives had heard the sound of a motor when the two American
planes were accounted for indicated that he had at least safely
gotten around Cape Farewell. The report made plausible the
theory that Locatelli had landed in the first suitable fjord encoun-
tered and would continue on to Fredericksdal with the lifting of
the fog.
When the next day, August 22, brought no word of his arrival
and investigation by the Danish authorities cast some doubt on
the credibility of the natives' report, plans were made for a care-
ful search of both coasts of Greenland. The Islands Falk at Fred-
ericksdal and the Milwaukee at Ivigtut organized parties of
Eskimos to work in and out of the numerous fjords in kayaks
while the two cruisers on the east coast instituted a search both
by ship and plane. Fog prevented any activities that first day, but
on August 23 the Richmond and the Raleigh were in good posi-
tions with clear weather conditions. During the morning watch
the flagship's No. 1 plane with Lieutenant Sallada pilot was hoisted
out and searched without success for two hours, covering a twenty-
mile strip on either side of the ship over pack ice and sea. Plane
No. 2, while being warmed up, backfired and burst into flames
which caused plenty of excitement in the early hours of the morn-


  p. 1437 (#355)                      #

1925]
1437
How the Navy Helped Them Home
ing. The fuselage was damaged beyond repair, reducing the
Richmond's searching ability somewhat. The two planes on the
Raleigh spent a little more than two hours each in the air, cover-
ing 2,700 square nautical miles with no sight of Locatelli. During
the day the ships had run in toward the coast, but with dusk they
worked out to sea again in order to keep well clear of the ice.
August 24 was a repetition of the preceding day except that fog
and mist prevented such an extensive search. While the navy
planes were in the air on the east coast the Chicago and New Or-
leans quietly made the two-hour hop from Fredericksdal to Ivig-
tut. That Sunday afternoon brought the Richmond her closest to
Greenland, a most forbidding looking coast line; bleak mountains,
snow-capped and misty ; valleys full of ice, glinting and flickering
in the sun; detached hummocks drifting out to sea; the wind
whistling and cold. In connection with the disparity in names of
these Danish possessions in the North Atlantic, a story was told in
Iceland at one of the gatherings in the Hotel Island. The dis-
coverers of Iceland, with their first impressions, called it such.
This descriptive name so scared prospective settlers that the gov-
ernment found it difficult to get the new land started. Profiting by
this phase of human nature, the same explorers, when they dis-
covered the second large island, decided to fool the public. There
is practically no green in Greenland while the harbor of Reykjavik
is remarkably ice free the year round. Correct or not, chrono-
logically and historically, it is an excellent explanation for the
apparent reversal of names.
That close view of Greenland made the chances of Locatelli and
his comrades seem exceedingly slim. When the Richmond ran
out to sea with nightfall the admiral had a despatch or two for
Operations on file in the radio room stating such. The fuel situa-
tion on the searching vessels was becoming serious while climate
and food supply were against the Italians. There was no thought
of giving up the search until some definite word regarding their
fate was received, and plans even were made for a tanker to come
north if necessary. The radio force was trying to get into com-
munication with one of the commercial stations in Nova Scotia in
order to clear these despatches when young Pinkston, a striker
on the signal bridge who has come in for a great deal of publicity
as a result, at 2320 sighted a fare on the horizon. The despatches


  p. 1438 (#356)                      #

1438
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
were killed immediately, and the Richmond went full speed down
the bearing, answering the flare with her Very pistols. The deck
log for the mid watch, August 25, is a complete story in brief :
Commences and until 4:00 A. M. Steaming on various courses at various
speeds, the Captain at the conn, heading toward what were thought might
be distress signals. 12:01 answered distress Very lights with two red
rockets and went ahead full speed, 20 knots, 193 rpm. 12:10 made out
steady white light on horizon dead ahead and fired two rockets which were
answered by Very lights. 12:15 turned on two searchlights. 12:20 made
out Italian monoplane 1-Deor in lat. 59-56 N; long. 39-48 W that had been
missing since Thursday afternoon, August 21. Made preparations for lower-
ing port life boat. Slowed to 10 knots. 12:30 monoplane in plain sight and
observed four passengers. Maneuvered to go alongside plane. 12:39 cast
over line to plane and brought her along side of port bow and allowed
plane to drift aft and around the stern to starboard quarter. 12:50 the
Honourable Antonio Locatelli, Deputy to the Italian Parliament; Lieu-
tenant Tullio Crosio, Royal Italian Air Service, Bruno Fulcinelli, and
Givoni Braccini, mechanics, came on board and were received as passengers
by order of the Commander Light Cruiser Divisions. Following conference
between the Commander Light Cruiser Divisions and the Honourable
Antonio Locatelli, the Commander Light Cruiser Divisions ordered plane
to be set afire, loose j andoned. 1:40 removed all baggage from
plane. 2:04 set fire to I-, id cast loose and went ahead slowly. 2:15
plane burst into bright fenes which suddenly disappeared at 2:31 and
I-Deor apparently sank, bearing 65 T, distance 4 miles.
That rescue was a weird scene, one to stick long in the memory.
There was enough fog and mist in the air to make the rays from
the searchlights ghostly; the four Italians were kneeling in the
bow of their plane, frantic with excitement, and snatches of the
Fascisti battle song were coming across the water. Their country-
man on deck was showing the Latin temperament to the extent
of talking four languages at once and coming dangerously close
to kissing the “brave Americans” on the cheek. With the decision
to dismantle the plane, while the fliers were removing their per-
sonal effects, the sailors were doing their best to get the 1-Deor
aboard in small pieces. Assisted by the incessant pounding against
the ship's side, within a half hour they had one wing almost en-
tirely stripped of its covering for souvenirs; all that kept them
from getting the engines and propellers was the inaccessibility of
those parts. When one of the sailors crawled out on the fuselage
and set fire to the oil-soaked waste train leading to the gasoline


  p. 1439 (#357)                      #

1925]
1439
How the Navy Helped Them Home
tanks and the I-Deor drifted astern, one of the newspaper men
was heard to say, "One more and the Richmond will be an ace.”
It did seem criminal to have to destroy that fine plane, uninjured
except for the rudders and ailerons.
With the lucky sighting of Locatelli's flare by Pinkston, the
Raleigh proceeded to Boston for propeller repairs and the Rich-
mond to Labrador. During the two-day run to Indian Harbor the
Italian fliers told and retold their story and autographed souvenir
pieces of the wing covering of their plane. A few hours before
dawn, on August 27, an iceberg as big as the Woolworth Building
loomed up suddenly on the port bow, fifteen hundred yards dis-
tant, with little of the customary warning of fog banks and a sud-
den drop in the temperature of the main injection. In the beam of
the searchlight fifteen hundred yards seemed fifty, and the officer-
of-the-deck was still jumpy with daylight and the coast in sight.
The Richmond stood in to Ice Tickle Straits the forenoon of
August 27, passing the Charles Ausburne, Lawrence and Mac-
Farland at anchor off Indian Harbor proper. The Lawrence came
to anchor nearer the flagship to simplify communications and make
conferences easier. Labrador, the pauk 't seen. 'n the Navy at
any rate, is a dreary looking country te destroyers that lay
there waiting for the flight deserve some real sympathy. With
their wardrooms crowded by extra passengers and the only amuse-
ments hunting and fishing in a rotten climate, their lot was not a
cheerful one. Toward the end of the flight duty hunting and fish-
ing were necessary amusements to provide variety in the menu.
That there was something to the question of a food shortage was
evidenced next day by the complimentary remarks from some of
the guests at lunch on the flagship. At the bottom of her pro-
visions too, the meal was an atrocious one, but those guests dove
into it as though it were a Hotel McAlpin special. The Richmond
received that day as passengers seven additional newspaper cor-
respondents and three more news reel camera men, representing the
Associated Press, the New York American, the North American
Newspaper Alliance, the United Press, the New York Times, the
New York World and the New York Herald-Tribune, and the
International News Reel, the Pathé Company and Kinograms.
They brought the extra mouths to feed to an even dozen, thirteen
newspaper men, five camera men, five members of the ill-fated


  p. 1440 (#358)                      #


U.S.N. Official Photo
LIEUTENANT Smith's First Touch of Soil on North American CONTINENT, ICE TICKLE,
LABRADOR


  p. 1441 (#359)                      #

1925]
1441
How the Navy Helped Them Home
Italian flight and an army aerologist. Locatelli and Crosio and the
aerologist messed in the wardroom at the regular time while the
news correspondents answered a second “pipe to dinner.” The
warrants messed the camera men and the chief petty officers the
two Italian mechanics so everybody was contented. A great deal
of friendly rivalry and kidding sprang up between the two news-
paper factions, the Icelandic Association and the Farthest North
Club. When the former, who had been on the Richmond through-
out, scoffed at the "farthest north” slogan, the latter published on
the wardroom bulletin board a set of hints for tourists entering
the tropics, illustrated with West Indian and south sea postcards
which made it a draw. The following may be giving away a news-
paper secret, but the Richmond received with the new passengers
about 9,000 words of press, the individual stories of the land-
ing of the U. S. Army Around the World Flight on the North
American continent. During the two days of waiting for the next
hop these stories were forwarded to the different papers and set
up ready for printing, except for the time, date, and weather con-
ditions. Though some of the stories were a little colorful, trained
imaginations very accurately pictured the actual happening, and it
was a relief to the radio personnel to know that there would be no
great traffic jam after the event.
On August 30 the patrol vessels were in position with the Mil-
waukee at Ivigtut and the Richmond anchored off Ice Tickle; the
Coghlan, MacFarland, Charles Ausburne and Lawrence were
equally spaced between the two. Sunday morning, August 31,
dawned bright and clear with similar conditions at all stations, and
at 0730, flagship time, planes two and four hopped off. The re-
ports of passing came from the first three ships on schedule time,
but the flash from the Lawrence almost caught the patrol at the
destination napping. The 112 nautical miles between the Charles
Ausburne and the Lawrence were covered in the record time of
fifty-nine minutes, or about 127 land miles an hour. The ship's
officers who wished to see the historic landing at close hand, the
civilian passengers and the working parties were rushed ashore
right away. With the time for their arrival near at hand every-
body on board was on deck watching for the two specks through
a depression in the low hills to the northward ; number two stack
was belching out black smoke in a five-mile long streamer to lee-


  p. 1442 (#360)                      #

1442
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ward to such an extent that the paint was cracking and falling off,
and the main arc set was hissing telling VAS, Louisburg, Nova
Scotia, to stand by. Suddenly all the pent-up emotions of a month
of delays and discouragements and uncertainty burst out through
the whistle and siren as the Chicago and New Orleans came into
sight. Everywhere were smiles and back-clappings and eyes shin-
ing with gladness that at last they had got through, as though all
were trying to convince themselves that there never had been any
doubt.
The Lawrence stood in later that day and relieved some of the
congestion on the flagship by receiving eleven of the civilians, the
five Italians and the aerologist for transportation to Pictou. With
the Milwaukee in sight standing in to relieve her as station ship,
the Richmond got underway the next afternoon for the Bay of
Islands, Newfoundland. Four huge icebergs glinting in the sun
to seaward were remindful of the close call several nights before
so she steamed quite warily along the coast of Labrador. The
Straits of Belle Isle, where the British cruiser Raleigh was
wrecked, were entered shortly after midnight. Just before morn-
ing colors on September 2, the entrance to the Bay of Islands
was reached with the Brazos, dwarfed by the high surrounding
hills, at anchor inside with fuel and provisions and the first mail
since July 20. The Richmond went right alongside her to begin
fueling. She had brought twenty-four bags of mail from the
States, and had enough extra provisions to transfer some real
delicacies for the few remaining days of the flight duty. Canteen
stores were in the greatest demand, so her stock of cigarettes and
candy must have barely lasted through the day.
While the Richmond was fueling the fliers hopped off for the
short leg to Hawkes Bay, Newfoundland, near the Straits of Belle
Isle. This base was one of the several established by the Mil-
waukee en route to Indian Harbor in July and August. Short
hops were provided for in that area of fog and uncertain weather.
The MacFarland watched the planes pass over once again, and
soon they were due in the small bay where the Charles Ausburne
was waiting. Some time before their expected arrival a thick fog
set in, in which Smith and Nelson lost their bearings. When the
Charles Ausburne reported them long overdue and forwarded
news of motors being heard by people on shore in a place which


  p. 1443 (#361)                      #

1925]
1443
How the Navy Helped Them Home
indicated that they were far off their course, plans were made to
join in the search at once. The experiences with Wade and Loca-
telli made delays of even a few minutes portents to cause worry.
Just after the Richmond completed fueling the welcome report of
arrival was received with which she got underway for her position
for the next stop.
With Evangeline's country smiling in the sunlight and real
trains in sight on the beach, the flagship lay-to off Cape George,
Nova Scotia, September 3, keeping moving the reports of weather
conditions. After some delay the Chicago and New Orleans took
off from Hawkes Bay, and the Brazos near the entrance to the
Bay of Islands and Coghlan midway between Newfoundland and
Cape Breton Island reported their passing with pleasing regularity.
Right on schedule time the two planes were sighted below a low-
lying cloud bank to the northward, and the end of the patrol was
almost within view. As soon as Smith and Nelson passed with
the customary zooms and salutes the Richmond turned for the
Gut of Canso, the narrow passage separating Cape Breton Island
and Nova Scotia, at 25 knots for her station on the next leg, the
last in which she was actively interested.
The Gut of Canso, about fifteen miles long, averages a half a
mile in width. Because of the necessity for being on station near
Nahant Light for the proposed flight next day, the flagship did
not slow one turn of her screws. At that speed, possibly the
greatest ever made through the Gut by a vessel of her size, the
stern wave piled up on the beach on either side like breakers. The
small boats secured for the night made heavy weather of it, while
some canoers out in the stream paddled frantically to keep headed
up into the waves. A tug moored to one of the docks cast off
hurriedly, and it can be imagined what her skipper was saying.
With all that commotion along the shore line, the villagers left
their suppers to hang out of windows, wondering what was up. An
automobile tearing along the shore drive had a hard time keeping
abreast of the ship; the driver may have been trying to get an
idea of the speed she was making by comparison with his speed-
ometer. As the Richmond swung to the south a most magnificent
sunset flared up; to a believer in signs, it could have been Nature's
smile on the eve of the completion of a hard duty well done.


  p. 1444 (#362)                      #

1444
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Shortly after dark word was received from Smith that, on ac-
count of rough water in the harbor at Pictou, some minor repairs
to the planes were uncompleted, and that the flight to Boston would
be delayed. With no especial need of hurry then, the Richmond
slowed to the more conservative speed of 15 knots, arriving in Bos-
ton harbor at daylight on September 5. So as to be on hand for
a demonstration second only to that which greeted the news of the
Armistice in 1918, all the civilian passengers left the ship that
morning as soon as pratique was granted. The Richmond re-
turned to her station off Nahant Light, and the stage was set
with the Barry at the start, the Lawrence off Saint Johns, New
Brunswick, and the MacFarland guarding Portland, Maine. News
of the take-off and the progress of the planes, now three in num-
ber again with the entrance of the Boston II, in the around-the-
world race, were relayed via the Richmond to the navy yard for
further relay to the hundred thousand people waiting at the Boston
airport in a bad rain for their first sight of the fliers. The V-
shaped formation was once again unlucky for the fiers had to
land in Casco Bay, Maine, for the night on account of fog. The
admiral went in to the navy yard, then, to grant some greatly ap-
preciated liberty. Seeing the flight pass overhead next day from
a berth alongside a navy yard dock while an escort of a dozen or
more land planes circled about and every whistle and bell in that
part of Massachusetts sounded out was a sort of anti-climax to
the scene in Labrador. It may have been that at Ice Tickle the
ship represented the government, the people, everything American;
back in the States she was but a small part of a monster ovation.
Statistics usually are boring and merely glanced over; a few of
those connected with the work of the Navy in patrolling the Army
Around the World Flight may prove of interest. Three light
cruisers, six destroyers and one oil tanker which took part in the
Alight duty had a total complement of 189 officers and 2,582 men.
In all, 11,221 hours were spent by these ships in safeguarding the
route to the planes. To steam the 46,820 miles cruised by all,
3,346,199 gallons of fuel oil were necessary, an additional expense
to the fight of $162,887. The Richmond, during the month of
August alone, handled by the direct method 99,453 words of radio
and visual traffic of which 52,645 words went to the various news-
papers represented. Extra watches and irregular hours were ac-


  p. 1445 (#363)                      #

1925)
1445
How the Navy Helped Them Home
cepted cheerfully by all hands, and the finest spirit prevailed
throughout. Sunday always seemed to be a lucky day: the num-
ber of noteworthy Sabbaths in August was remarkable. On
August 3 Wade made his forced landing and was rescued, while
Smith reached Iceland; August 10 was a dud, but on the seven-
teenth the decision to abandon Angmagsalik was reached. On the
twenty-fourth, Smith and Nelson flew from Fredericksdal to Ivig-
tut, and a few hours later Locatelli's flare was sighted, while the
thirty-first saw the flight across the Danish Straits and the historic
landing on the North American continent.
Besides the great satisfaction of knowing just how much was
the success of the army flight dependent upon the manner in which
the Navy carried out this unusual duty, is a certain material re-
ward in the decoration presented by the Independent Order of the
Sons of Italy with the following:
To the Commander, Officers and Sailors of the U. S. S. Richmond
Who with that noble and brethernly spirit and humane solidarity during
the night of the 24th of August, 1924, after untiring search found
and brought to safety the Italian ace "Lieutenant Antonio Locatelli" and
his brave companions, lost in the Arctic waters while on their heroic Alight
from Europe to the American coast.
"That noble and brethernly spirit and humane solidarity.” A
quaint expression perhaps, but one typifying the feeling in the
naval patrol. Look up the word “solidarity” again.


  p. 1446 (#364)                      #

THE SELECTION AND USE OF BINOCULARS
By Ensign Alan R. McCRACKEN, U. S. Navy
HE binocular is one of the most constantly used, and also
I abused, instruments aboard ship. Because it is indispensable
on deck, many naval officers find a real satisfaction in own-
ing it, but more often they pay the price of a scientific instrument
for a commercial toy. While there are reliable optical manufac-
turers whose products can be asked for by name, there are also
hundreds of so-called binoculars turned out in quantity factories
to be sold rather than to give real service. In nearly every for-
eign port an ambitious merchant may bring aboard a suit case
full of various types of instruments, many of which are next to
worthless. The salesman usually has every advantage over his
customer who does not, as a rule, know where or how to locate
defects in the optical system, but simply holds the glass to his
eyes, sees that it brings objects nearer, pronounces it a binocular,
and departs with his purchase. There are, however, those who
are not so easily pleased, and their application of the following
tests will prevent the selection of an inferior, damaged, or im-
properly adjusted instrument.
Naturally, the use which is to be made of a binocular deter-
mines to some extent its characteristics. For our purpose it is
reasonable to assume that a marine glass is desired, one that will
give results both day and night. Light weight glasses are the
most convenient, and as for finish, rubber vulcanized right on
the barrels is much more durable than leather. For use at sea a
binocular should be sealed air and moisture proof to protect the
prisms and lenses.
The desirable optical qualities are: a fairly high power, a large
field, sharp definition of objects, depth perception, and high per-
centage of light transmission. As is usually the case, several of
the requirements conflict.
Offhand, it sounds logical to state that the higher the power,
the better, but as the power increases what happens to the field ?


  p. 1447 (#365)                      #

1925)
1447
Selection and Use of Binoculars
It grows smaller, which is exactly contrary to the second require-
ment. A very high power so reduces the field that it is difficult
to locate and follow a moving object. Another practical limita-
tion is the fact that every motion of the binocular is magnified by
its power. With a very high powered instrument the slight trem-
blings of the hand and the roll of the ship appear so great, when
magnified, that the object viewed seems to jump about. It is
almost impossible to use a binocular of above ten power without
securing it to a rigid mount. The best compromise on power for
ship board use is six, seven, or eight. A higher power is too
difficult to use at sea and has too small a field, while a lower one
is inadequate.
The use of prisms, in addition to making a longer focal length
possible in a compact instrument, enables the objectives to be
separated wider than are the eyes, which adds greatly to depth
perception, that is, makes an object stand out. If one eye be
closed it is very difficult to judge depth, but with both eyes the
object is viewed from two different points simultaneously, and to
a certain extent both sides of it are seen at once. The composite
makes the object stand out clearly. For great distances, however,
the eyes are not far enough apart to make this effect sufficiently
marked. The prisms are so utilized that they are equivalent to
widening the space between the eyes and correspondingly heighten-
ing depth perception. The requirements of an opera glass,
cxactly opposite, further illustrate the same point. The stage
drops and wings are drawn in perspective on plane surfaces, and
have no real depth in themselves. The effect as seen by the naked
eye is not unpleasant, but if viewed through a binocular designed
to bring out depth, which in this case does not exist, the settings
appear baldly flat and totally lifeless. Therefore, instead of
widening the objectives, those of an opera glass are located closer
together than the eyes, using prisms, of course, to deflect the light
rays. The practical effect, then, is as if the stage were seen from
the single viewpoint of the perspective construction, and the flat
surfaces appear to have greater apparent depth than when viewed
by the eyes alone. Such a glass heightens the illusion as agree-
ably as the wide spread objectives make distant objects stand out.
Having decided upon a seven-power prism binocular, inspect
several pairs for the following mechanical characteristics. The


  p. 1448 (#366)                      #

1448
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
eye-pieces should be individually adjustable and both marked for
settings from plus five to minus five diopters. An instrument
which has but one eyepiece so marked is inconvenient to use as
it requires further adjusting by a central knob after raising the
binocular to the eyes, always an awkward and time-taking oper-
ation. Try the movement of the hinge. It should be stiff without
binding, and on the end should have a graduated arc which shows
in millimeters the distance between the eyepieces (the inter-
pupillary distance) at any angle of the hinge. This scale is
usually marked from about fifty-five to seventy-five.
The following tests will show up any flaws in the optical system
of a binocular.
1. With the objectives (large end) near a source of light, hold
an ordinary inch scale near one of the eyepieces. The small
circle of light which falls on the scale should be nearly a quarter
of an inch in diameter. This circle of light is called the exit
pupil, and for most efficient results should be the same size as the
pupil of the eye. When this condition exists, the binocular is
transmitting exactly the maximum number of light rays that the
eye can accommodate. An exit pupil larger than the pupil of the
eye is a waste of transmitted light rays, while a smaller exit pupil
allows the eye to overlap and part of its surface is not utilized.
At night any waste of available light or of pupil surface is par-
ticularly objectionable, hence the exit pupil should correspond to
the size of the pupils of the dark-accustomed eye which is just
under a quarter of an inch. To be sure, this size does waste a
narrow ring of light rays in the daytime when the pupils contract,
but it can be spared then with much less loss of efficiency than
at night.
2. Look into the objective ends to examine the condition of the
prisms. Any dirt spots or chipped edges will be plainly visible.
Spotted prisms are nearly always found in cheap binoculars, and
though it may be insisted that the spots make little difference
they do cost light rays in proportion to their size.
3. Examine the objective lenses themselves.
4. Examine the eyepiece lenses.
5. View some object through the binocular. No color should be
seen around the edge of the lens or of the object. An achromatic


  p. 1449 (#367)                      #

1925)
1419
Selection and Use of Binoculars
lens neutralizes the colors that are seen through a prism with the
exception of a faint trace of the yellow which is scarcely visible.
6. The prisms must be exactly at 90° to each other or the
image will be canted. Hold the binocular several inches from
the eyes so that a horizontal line, such as a window sill, can be
observed through it, and at the same time seen directly at each
side of the binocular. The real line and the image should form
a perfect continuation. Should the image be canted at a slighi
angle to the real line the prisms are inaccurately adjusted.
7. Lay the binocular on a support where it can be held solidly.
Sight through one side and bring some line or small object to the
edge of the field. Then, without moving the instrument, sight
through the other side of the binocular. The object should ap-
pear in exactly the same position in the field, regardless of the
hinge angle. Repeat the test with several different positions of
the hinge.
8. Using the binocular normally, bring some small bright object
to the edge of the field. Because of the curved surfaces of the
lenses the object will be slightly distorted, but this unavoidable
effect should not be extreme. Continue the test by moving the
binocular in a circle and bringing the object into every portion of
the outer field.
9. Look at a distant object, a smokestack for instance. The
details, such as mortar between the bricks, should show up clearly
and sharply.
10. Having chosen several pairs in this way, train them in turn
on some distant object at twilight. As it grows darker the image
grows dimmer and dimmer, probably disappearing in some of
the selected glasses before it does in others. Eliminate those
which lose the object until there is but one pair left.
A binocular which stands up under these tests will be worth
the price paid for it. By means of the first nine a number of
instruments suitable for day use are selected, while the tenth test
enables the purchaser to choose from them the one which is, in
addition, the best night glass.
Such an instrument deserves careful handling. Guard par-
ticularly against knocking or dropping the binocular. The strap is
insurance against dropping and should always be used. Few
prisms can withstand a fall as their adjustment is so delicate.


  p. 1450 (#368)                      #

1450
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Should they be knocked out of alignment do not attempt to repair
them yourself, as the collimation, or lining-up, of binoculars is an
art which requires an expert and considerable apparatus.
In order to use a binocular with the best results a few pre-
liminary experiments must be made. The eyepiece settings re-
quired by the individual and also the distance between his eyes
must be determined. While there are special instruments for the
purpose they are not usually at hand and the glass itself will give
adequate results.
The eyepiece graduation is in diopters, a term used to express
the optical characteristics of a lens. If parallel rays of light pass
through a one-diopter lens they will meet at a point one meter
from the lens. A two-diopter lens will cause them to meet at a
point one-half a meter away, while a four-diopter lens focuses
them at a quarter of a meter. Set the eyepieces to plus five diop-
ters. Using one eye at a time slowly revolve its eyepiece, in the
direction which reduces the reading, until a distant object appears
distinct. Stop as soon as the point of distinctness is reached.
Although the eyepiece may be turned considerably farther without
blurring the image, for the eye accommodates itself to several
minus diopters, it is a severe strain if persisted in for any length
of time. This is the reason for beginning at a plus setting and
working toward the minus rather than vice versa. Turn the eye-
piece until the image just appears with perfect distinctness, then
note the reading on the diopter scale. Repeat several times as a
check, and remember the setting finally decided upon as the cor-
rect one for each eye. The diopter reading for a young man
with normal sight is generally not far from minus one. Near-
sighted eyes will require a higher minus reading, while the read-
ing for those of farsight will be in the direction of the plus side
of the scale.
To determine the inter-pupillary distance separate the ob-
jectives by opening the hinge to a wide angle. Look through the
binocular and the field will appear to be bounded by two slightly
overlapping circles. Close the hinge until the two fields merge
together and form a single perfect circle. Reference to the inter-
pupillary scale on the end of the hinge will show the distance be-
tween the eyes, from sixty to seventy millimeters except in ex-
treme cases.


  p. 1451 (#369)                      #

1925]
1451
Selection and Use of Binoculars
The owner of the instrument is now equipped to use it in a
military manner. He will not be confused with the amateur who
holds the glass to his eyes and fusses and turns and adjusts awk-
wardly while trying to locate an object. Instead he remembers
his own optical characteristics; right eye minus one, left eye
minus one and a half. He sets them in a second and as he raises
the binocular swings the hinge to sixty-four. Instantly, with his
first glance, he sees objects at their maximum clearness. Nor is
he limited to a particular pair of glasses. He can use any stan-
dard binocular with the same facility, and with the scientific
efficiency for which the naval officer strives.


  p. 1452 (#370)                      #

THE DACIA DILEMMA
By REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD WAINWRIGHT, U. S. Navy, Ret.
UR ambassador to Great Britain, Walter H. Page, had
many hard nuts to crack during the World War, but the
Dacia incident stands out impressively because of its im-
portance and the means he used to bring about a happy ending.
The Dacia was a German steamer that sought safety from the
allied cruisers at the outbreak of the war, in Port Arthur, Texas.
She was purchased by a man from Marquette, Michigan, whose
name was Breitung. She was duly registered and granted author-
ity to hoist the American flag early in 1915 under a law passed by
Congress to meet the growing need of more shipping. Up to that
time foreign-built vessels were prohibited registry unless after
serious damage at sea and extensive repairs. The new owner
loaded her with cotton and announced through the press his in-
tention of dispatching her to Germany. The shifting of a vessel
from a belligerent to a neutral flag has always been a delicate
question and one that has given rise to much discussion. Was it a
genuine transfer or was it a mere whitewash? At one time
hoisting a neutral flag over a belligerent-owned merchant vessel
was called whitewashing and often the coat of whitewash was
thought too thin to cover the belligerent ownership.
In his Life and Letters our ambassador tells how impressed
his subordinates were by his gravity of demeanor, both before
and after his interview with Sir Edward Grey about the
Dacia.
By looking into the laws of war at sea, we can see some
of the difficulties that confronted him when he protested,
under orders from Washington, against her seizure. Prior
to the World War, the transfer of a belligerent vessel to
a neutral flag was held under suspicion by American and
British courts and was prohibited by continental courts. In
the case of the Jemmy in 1801, Lord Stowell says: “When an
enemy ship has been transferred to a neutral owner but is left
under the same management and in the same trade as before the


  p. 1453 (#371)                      #

1925)
1453
The Dacia Dilemma
transfer, the conclusive presumption is raised that the transfer
is not genuine.” Again, in 1805, he says: “The court has often
had occasion to observe that where a ship asserted to have been
transferred is continued under the former agency and the former
habits of trade not all the swearing in the world will convince
it that it is a genuine transaction."
In the case of the Ernst Merck, in 1854, Dr. Lushington says:
“The law requires, where a vessel has been purchased shortly
before the commencement of the war or during the war, clear
and satisfactory proof of the right and title of the neutral claim-
ant, and of the entire divestment of all right and interest in the
enemy vendor. The onus is upon the claimant to produce this
proof; if he does not do so the court cannot restore.” In the case
of the Benito Estenger, which was captured during our war with
Spain, the Supreme Court says: “A colorable transfer of a ship
from a belligerent to a neutral is in itself ground for condemnation
as a prize. The burden of proving neutral ownership of a vessel
in a prize case is on claimant.” The general trend of the rule held
by the continental powers and by Japan was that enemy vessels
transferred to a neutral flag after knowledge of the outbreak of
hostilities were subject to condemnation.
At the London convention this subject was seriously discussed
and agreement reached after some difficulty. The rule for vessels
transferred prior to hostilities was fairly liberal, but the one for
transfer after the outbreak of hostilities, which is the case of the
Dacia, is quite rigid. Article 56 of the Declaration of London
says: “The transfer of an enemy vessel to a neutral flag, effected
after the opening of hostilities, is void unless it is proved that such
transfer was not made to evade the consequences which the enemy
character of the vessel would involve. ...." The Dacia, by the
American and British rule, was liable to capture and subject to
condemnation unless proof of good faith could be produced. By
the continental rule she was liable to capture and sure of con-
demnation. By Article 56 of the Declaration of London she was
liable to capture and sure of condemnation unless she could prove
that the transfer was not made to evade the consequences of her
former enemy character. By all the rules of international law
the Dacia was liable to capture and to being turned over to a
prize court. The American Government was bound by the rules
of the London Declaration, as it had insisted upon the acceptance


  p. 1454 (#372)                      #

1454
[Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
by the Allies of that body of rules, and Ambassador Page had
been required to see Sir Edward Gray and urge their adoption
on four occasions. The British had refused to ratify the London
Declaration before the war as it too greatly limited the power of
her fleet. She finally reluctantly accepted the Declaration with
some reservations, so the United States was doubly bound to
accept the rules as adopted in London.
Under Article 56 the Dacia could have no hope of release once
she came under the jurisdiction of a British prize court and it is
doubtful if her Michigan owner with a German name hoped or
desired to escape capture. Otherwise, he would hardly have made
public his intention of sending to Germany an ex-German vessel,
acquired since the outbreak of war and with a cargo of cotton.
While cotton had not at that time been declared contraband, it did
touch a very sensitive nerve of the party in power. Did Breitung
desire to embroil the United States with Great Britain ? About
this time the American public was much stirred up about seizures
and detentions and general interruption of commerce, and by
the propaganda of Germans and Irish in the United States.
Great Britain had the right to seize and condemn the Dacia
under the rule forced upon her by our government. If she failed
to seize her and relinquished her right to condemn her, she was
threatened with the entry into commerce with Germany of all the
German merchant fleet that had sought the protection of American
harbors. If she exercised her right and the Dacia was con-
demned, she was threatened with the memories of 1812, and
realized the serious effect of the outcries of interested parties on
the American public.
No wonder our ambassador, who so well understood our duties
and interests in the war, was seriously affected by the situation :
and when inspired by the thought of a way to avoid both horns of
the dilemma carried the idea to Sir Edward Grey. He suggested
to Sir Edward Grey that the English fleet had been sufficiently
advertised and that it was time to give the French a chance. The
Dacia was seized by a French man-of-war and was condemned by
a French prize court. There was no holding ground for the
propagandists against the French people and the Dacia incident
was closed, much to the advantage of the Allies and in accordance
with the interests of the United States and the civilized world.


  p. 1455 (#373)                      #

A BACHELOR LOOKS AT THE NAVY PAY BILLS
By LIEUTENANT Harry A. ROCHESTER, U. S. Navy
FTER six and a half years at sea, living aboard ship does
not present the same novelty and attraction that it did
upon graduation from the Naval Academy. Living con-
ditions afloat are not made any the more pleasant at a navy yard,
where the general discomfort of ship life is aggravated by the
repair work. The Commissioner of Internal Revenue evidently
saw these various aspects in rendering a decision for the income
tax returns, that the stateroom of a naval vessel is considered a
temporary shelter, existing for its own purpose and the benefit
of the naval service.
After all, any personal inconvenience can be dismissed with
mention, as no unbearable hardship is imposed, and the dis-
comfort is transitory, like seasickness, being but a memory after
the moment. However, the provision of the Joint Service Pay
Bill of 1922, whereby, when at sea, officers with dependents are
given extra allowance for quarters ashore, is not to be disposed of
so lightly. On the other hand, unmarried officers or officers
without dependents, when at sea, receive no such allowances.
This discrimination is socially unjust and economically unsound.
Here, at the navy yard, or when anchored in port, the married
men can go ashore to quarters for which they receive allowances
in addition to their pay. Unmarried officers without dependents,
on the other hand, find it beyond their means to set up even a
modest establishment ashore. Sociologists tell us that marriage
is the normal state for the adult male. Yet, the celibate, living
in an unnatural social state, is further penalized by the pay bill,
which allots his brother married officer extra allowances for
quarters to the exclusion of the single men.
For any further comparison, and to obviate any illimitable dis-
cussion, let us consider the relative merit of married and un-
married officers to be equal in all respects, equal in rank and
service, equal in ability, and equal in their individual benefit to


  p. 1456 (#374)                      #

1456
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
the naval service. Such factors on the efficiency and morale of
these officers as are introduced by unexpected ship movements,
changes of orders, and similar influences will be considered as
producing the same effect in either case.
On looking back over six years or so, older officers can be seen
urging that the present pay bill be not protested by officers without
dependents, because if the bill were not passed by Congress, all
officers would revert to the 1908 pay bill, losing the war bonus
and commutation of quarters. With either pay bill the officers
without dependents would be paid according to the scale of 1908.
In either case the unmarried officer was to be neglected. With
the increased cost of living caused by the depreciation of the dollar
in the World War, a new pay bill was imperative. Accordingly,
a new pay bill was drafted, presented, and passed, wherein base
pay for rank, plus sea service, plus longevity was replaced by a
base pay effected primarily by longevity, then by rank, plus an
added subsistence and rental allowance for officers with dependents
when ashore and at sea.
There is no doubt that a drastic revision of the 1908 pay bill
was needed. The method of computing pay and allowances which
was adopted was, to a certain extent, compatible with the inter-
national social and political unrest, and with a partial readjust-
ment from the sky high inflation of war prices. But why did
officers without dependents not also receive increased remunera-
tion? With a lieutenant six and a half years out of the Naval
Academy, he actually had his pay decreased not only in the
actual number of dollars but also in the depreciation of the pur-
chasing value of dollars.
In 1908, at sea, a lieutenant with six years of commissioned
service received $2,880 a year. Today, a lieutenant of the same
length of service receives $2,616. However, the $264 decrease is
but a small loss in comparison with the difference in the purchas-
ing power of the dollar in 1908 and 1924. Dun's index number
of commodity prices for 1908 averages 115, and about 183 for
1924. In other words, the average commodity has advanced in
price in that period in the proportion of 115 to 183. Today,
$2,616 is equivalent in purchasing power to $2,616 times 115/183,
or to $1,644 in 1908. In the latter year, $2,880 was equivalent in
purchasing power to $2,880 times 183/115, or to $4,583 today.


  p. 1457 (#375)                      #

1925]
1457
A Bachelor Looks at Navy Bills
Has the celibate naval officer's corresponding worth depreciated
$4,583 minus $1,644, or $2,939 per year, equal to 112 per cent
of his present pay, during the last sixteen years ?
To the casual observer the sophistry of the present pay bill is
not obvious. But, some one says, the expenses for the necessities
of life of the married man are much more than those of an un-
married man. Of course, there is no contention to the contrary.
During the war, about the same time as the "ten per cent plus
cost” government contracts were made, the subsistence allowance
was born as an emergency measure, whereas, when the exigencies
of drastic war measures were over, and the "ten per cent plus
cost" contract policy was abandoned, the subsistence allowance
was carefully nurtured and used in connection with the Joint
Service Pay Bill of 1922.
The Navy Department in its appropriations sets aside a certain
amount for the pay of officers. Taking the case of the two
officers at seå, one with the dependents and the other without
dependents, we have the combined pay of these two officers
divided into three parts. One part goes to the officer without
dependents, an equal part to the officer with dependants, and the
third part for the dependents of the second officer. Here we have
a communistic economic organization. I am at a loss to find an
analogous system of compensation in other than the military arm
of the United States Government, or an analogous system of any
size or responsibility in the industrial world.
This viewpoint, doubtless, will seem indelicate and distasteful
to some married officers. Some may state that patriotism and not
desire of wealth should be the actuating motive for the ideal
officer. This view is heartily agreed with, but it may be added
that anyone who believes a bachelor will become wealthy if he
be given the quarters allowance had better spend his time study-
ing arithmetic. No matter, though, how lofty the ideals of the
individual officer may be, the fact is not precluded that the present
pay bill is communistic, wherein the monetary remuneration for
the personal services of two officers is shared by the dependents
of one of these officers.
The point is made that all bachelors should be taxed. The
United States has a bachelor's tax. The income tax allows an
exemption for dependents, of which a bachelor without depend-


  p. 1458 (#376)                      #

1458
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ents cannot avail himself. It is a matter of phraseology to call
this an exemption for dependents, a tax for no dependents, or a
bachelor's tax.
In the same manner, an officer with dependents receives a
remuneration that exceeds the remuneration of an officer without
dependents by the dependents' allowance. An officer without
dependents is, in fact, taxed for his celibacy, the amount of the
dependents' allowance. Thus the naval officer bachelor, in addi-
tion, to the federal income bachelor tax, is taxed again by the
federal government for $936 extra. In the former case, the tax
is levied upon all classes covering the entire country. In the
second case, one particular class, a very small portion of the
United States citizens, is singled out for double taxation with a
pernicious discrimination.
A lesson ought to be learned from the recent reduction of
federal income taxes. Secretary Mellon, after an exhaustive
research and statistical study of all federal income taxes for 1922,
concluded that high rates for the larger incomes, by tending to
reduce disproportionately the yields from these incomes, made
further commercial or industrial expansion unprofitable, and so
stifled business. Of course an officer, in keeping with the best
traditions of the service, would not think of lessening his per-
sonal output, and he has no recourse, other than an article such
as this, with which to have any modifications made of any tax
concerning himself.
In retrospect, it seems that the Navy Pay Bill was drafted when
the United States was in a period of violent reaction and drastic
readjustment from the hardships and financial inflation of the
World War. Now, with financial affairs beginning to seek their
normal healthy level, the income tax was modified to be com-
patible with existing conditions. Why not equalize the remunera-
tion of officers with and without dependents by changing the
phraseology of the pay bill, and, in effect, give all officers the
present rental and subsistence allowance for dependents ?


  p. 1459 (#377)                      #

HONI HEKE'S WAR OF 1845 IN NEW ZEALAND
BY MAJOR EDWIN N. MCCLELLAN, U. S. MARINE CORPS
DEW, if any, of the thousands of American officers, blue-
jackets, and marines, of the fleet which visited New Zealand
this year, were aware that their forebears, serving on the sloop
of war St. Louis, had participated in stirring events under fire of
the Maoris in that vicinity eighty years before.
Chivalrous and magnanimous, there never were warriors who
possessed a higher degree of intelligent fighting spirit or played
the game of war with more sportsmanship than the Maoris. On
the body of one Maori general, killed in battle, was found the
order of the day, which began with a prayer and ended with the
biblical text: “If thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give
him drink.” There are many incidents which show that the
Maoris practiced what they preached.
When the Waikato tribe heard that the army of General Cam-
eron was in a starving condition, they loaded a number of canoes
with potatoes, goats, and milk, and sent them up the river to feed
their enemies.
And of what fighting material they were made! In 1863, some
300 Maoris were shut up in intrenchments at a place called
Orakau. Without water, pounded at by the English artillery,
and under a hail of rifle bullets and hand grenades—unsuccess-
fully assaulted no less than five times—they held out for three
days, though completely surrounded. The English general sent
a flag of truce, inviting them to surrender honorably. To this
they made the ever famous reply, “Enough! We fight on, for-
ever, forever, forever!” Then the general offered to let the
women come out, and the answer was: “The women will fight as
well as we.” At length, on the afternoon of the third day, the
Maori garrison, assembling in a body, charged right through the
English lines, fairly jumping over the heads of their enemies, as
* The Story of New Zealand, Parsons, pp. 64-66.


  p. 1460 (#378)                      #

1460
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
they lay behind a bank. So unexpected and amazing was their
charge that they would have gotten away with but slight loss had
they not, when outside the lines, been headed off and confronted
by a force of colonial rangers and cavalry. Half of them fell ;
the remainder, including the celebrated war chief Rewi, got
clear away.1
After their conversion to Christianity the Maoris would not
fight on Sunday and were more than surprised to find that the
English, though professing to be Christians, paid no respect to
the Sabbath."
About the year 1375, the Maoris, a savage people from the
Polynesian or Hawaiian Islands, arrived in New Zealand in their
double canoes.
New Zealand was first seen by a European in 1642, when
Tasman, a Dutch navigator, anchored in a northern bay of Middle
Island, appropriately named by him Massacre Bay, because of
the murdering of some of his crew. Captain James Cook took
possession in the name of George III, in 1769, finding the Maoris
still in the Stone Age. The law of "indiscriminate retaliation"
prevailed among the Maoris and they cared little from which
foreigners, or when, they exacted revenge for any ill treatment.
The first European residents in New Zealand were Protestant
missionaries led by Samuel Marsden, who, in November, 1814,
settled at the Bay of Islands, on the northeast coast of North
Island. A Roman Catholic mission, under Bishop Pompallier,
was established in the same vicinity in 1838. It was not, however,
until 1839 that colonizing on a systematic basis began. King
William IV addressed the New Zealanders as an independent
people in 1833 and recognized their national flag the following
year. This was all forgotten in February, 1840, when the
Maoris relinquished their independence by the Treaty of Waitangi
and became subjects of Great Britain. The submission of the
Maoris was due largely to the influence of Chief Tamati Waka
Nene, who explained to his countrymen that the shadow of the
land would go to Queen Victoria but that the substance would
remain with them. British sovereignty was proclaimed on May
21, 1840.


  p. 1461 (#379)                      #

1925]
1461
Honi Heke's War of 1845
The seat of government was first at Kororareka (or Russell)
on the Bay of Islands, but in September, 1840, it was moved to
Auckland. On May 3, 1841, New Zealand was proclaimed inde-
pendent of New South Wales.
Hongi Hika, a scion of the illustrious Ngapuhui nation, and
Waikako—two great New Zealand Maori chiefs—visited England
in 1820 and learned how to use firearms. Upon the return of
Hongi to the Bay of Islands his first act was to arm his followers
and levy war upon the natives in the central part of North Island.
The fruits of his campaign were 2,000 dead natives. Hongi had
read a great deal about Napoleon and imitated that famous leader.
His luckless enemies, armed only with spears, tomahawks, and
clubs, were killed, enslaved, and eaten by battalion. Tupai Cupa
(or Te Pehi), being defeated by Hongi, went to England about
1826 to secure firearms in order that he might meet his enemy
with better chance of success. The English authorities refused
him the munitions of war and sent him back to New Zealand at
state expense with agricultural implements and domestic animals.
Between 1824 and 1840 the Maoris went mad over “preparation
for war," as attested by the acquisition of firearms and ammu-
nition. The result was inevitable—approximately 20,000 Maoris
were bumped off in the tribal wars. In this period about one
quarter of the population perished. When Hongi passed on to
his fathers, his son-in-law, Honi Heke, as we shall see, carried
on with the same martial zest.
Ill feeling between the natives and foreigners continued to in-
crease until, in June, 1843, the Wairau massacre precipitated the
Honi Heke War. Honi Heke had been educated at a mission
school. He was a brilliant leader of men and, judged from a
Maori viewpoint, an ardent patriot. The tribes loyal to Eng-
land were led by Tamati Waka Nene. A bickering in July, 1844,
on account of a woman in Heke’s tribe who had married an Euro-
pean named Lord, precipitated this war, but the actual cause was
the desire of Heke to wage war on the British, brought about by
the inefficient administration of affairs by the then governor and
the “Land Sharks.” In July, 1844, Honi Heke cut down the flag-
staff at Kororareka and repeated the act on January 10, 1845.
After deciding to attack Kororareka in March, 1845, Honi Heke's
first act was to cut down and burn the Kororareka flagstaff for the


  p. 1462 (#380)                      #

1462
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
third time. He was soon joined by Kawati, another renowned
chieftain.
The Bay of Islands was, at this time, a great port for Ameri-
can whalers, “there being not less than seventy or eighty of our
whalers touching and refitting annually." ? Probably "no other
port or harbor in the world competed, in its importance to the
American whaling interests, with the Bay of Islands.” 2
While this pot of hell broth was stewing, the U.S.S. St. Louis,
Captain Isaac McKeever, anchored off the town on March 3,
after an eight-day cruise from Sydney. The St. Louis had
sailed from Hampton Roads on May 23, 1843, and had visited
many countries, including China, where, in 1844, her bluejackets
and marines had landed at Canton to protect American property
and lives. Then, after visiting Chusan and Ningpo, she sailed
for Australia and New Zealand. Her guard of twenty-one
marines was in charge of Orderly Sergeant Thomas Hurst.
Upon his arrival at the Bay of Islands, Captain McKeever, as
he reported to Secretary of the Navy John Y. Mason, on March
13, 1845, “found the Island in a state of great commotion from a
threatened attack upon the British authorities by the Natives,”
and that the arrival of the St. Louis was very opportune, “the
force of the European population being entirely inadequate to
the protection of their wives, children and property." The ab-
sence of an American consul at the Bay of Islands had brought
about awkward results for “a few days before his arrival the
English Governor had required the acting Consul to haul down
the American flag."
"Pursuing a course of non-interference, excepting where hu-
manity should dictate” him to act, he “nevertheless, by obtaining
interviews with the Native chiefs,” exacted “from-them a pledge
of safety to the innocent women and children of the Europeans." o
? Captain McKeever's Report to Secretary Mason, March 13, 1845.
'Captain McKeever, although born in Pennsylvania and a citizen of that
state, was appointed a midshipman in the Navy from Louisiana, on Febru-
ary 1, 1809; promoted lieutenant, December 9, 1814; commander, May 27,
1830; captain on December 8, 1838, and died on April 1, 1856.
* Naval Institute, December, 1910, p. 1096.
• Relieved as Secretary by George Bancroft on March 11, 1845.
¢ "Captain's Letters” filed in Navy Library, Washington, D. C.


  p. 1463 (#381)                      #

1925)
1463
Honi Heke's War of 1845
By March 7, foreign refugees and their property started to
come on the St. Louis, and Captain McKeever's ship acted as a
general asylum from that date until he sailed for the United
States in April.
Early in March it was known that Honi Heke's troops were
in the neighborhood of Kororareka, and on the ninth of that
month the followers and allies of Honi Heke and Kawati were
estimated to be from six hundred to seven hundred. On this
date they gave the first indication of hostilities by firing on an
armed boat of the British that was pursuing plunderers. On the
same day, while reconnoitering, Lieutenant Philpot (command-
ing H.B.M.S. Hazard) and Midshipman Parrott were surprised
by a large band of Maoris who detained them for about ten
ininutes, but, by order of Honi Heke, liberated them on finding
that they had no followers. 8
Lieutenant Philpot, on the ninth, reported to Governor Fitz Roy
"the noble conduct of the natives in sending, under protection of
a white flag, from the First Block House, the wife and child of
John Tapper, signalman at the Flagstaff, who was wounded whilst
bravely working one of the guns.” 8 These two incidents illustrate
the altruistic tendencies of the Maoris and the ideal ethical code
that governed them in battle.
One Sunday about this time a missionary preached in the native
camp from the text in James, "Whence come wars and fighting.”
At the conclusion of the service, Honi Heke recommended the
priest to go and deliver the same sermon in the English camp,
as it was more applicable there than in his camp; and as a proof
of his wishes for peace, he informed the missionary that he had
released Lieutenant Philpot uninjured.
Then came March 11, the day on which Honi Heke secured
his "place in the sun." Before daylight several bands of about
two hundred Maoris each, made a general attack upon Korora-
reka. The key of the town was the Flagstaff Block House, situ-
ated on an eminence overlooking that village. Honi Heke's
strategy was perfect. Waiting until the attack on the town drew
'Log of St. Louis.
* Rusden's History of New Zealand.
Thomson's New Zealand, Vol. II, pp. 102-103; Rusden's History of
New Zealand.


  p. 1464 (#382)                      #

1464
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
off a considerable number of the Flagstaff Block House garrison
to reinforce the defenders of the town, he dashed forward with a
chosen band and, while most of the Block House guard were
away, secured possession of that position before its officer knew
of his presence.
The attack on Kororareka was repulsed, but the loss of the
Flagstaff Block House and the blowing up of their ammunition
magazine eventually caused the British to retreat aboard their
vessels about noon on the eleventh.10
Captain McKeever maintained strict neutrality during this battle.
However, he and his officers, bluejackets and marines voluntarily
placed themselves in as great danger as the combatants them-
selves when they went ashore in unarmed boats and, under the
musketry of the Maoris, extricated the European women and
children from the battle ground and carried them back to their
vessel. Captain McKeever sent his surgeons to the assistance oi
the Hazard's wounded. They remained on that vessel until the
twelfth.11
In a letter dated March 17, Lieutenant George Philpot, in
command of “Her Majesty's Ship Hazard,” thanked Captain
McKeever for the assistance he had rendered the English "in
taking off the sick and wounded from the beach at Russell (or
Kororareka) on the eleventh instant, whilst exposed to a heavy
fire from the Mawries (sic), and also for the general attention"
he had evinced toward them.12 The letter continued :
At the time I applied to you for aid, I was under the impression that you
had promised to land 150 men, should we be hard pressed. That impression
was formed merely from what I had casually heard in the stockade and on
the beach. Had I time to weigh the matter maturely I should have per-
ceived the impossibility of your acceding to my solicitation, as it was clearly
contrary to the principles of international law."
Governor Fitz Roy reported that Captain McKeever "could
not interfere hostilely, but he sent his unarmed boats and went
himself under frequent fire to succor the women and children and
convey them safely to his frigate."
Parsons, in his Story of New Zealand, wrote that “Anglo
Saxon brotherhood counted for something, even in 1845," for an
10 Log of St. Louis.
11 Log of St. Louis.
» Published in the National Intelligencer, July 30, 1845.


  p. 1465 (#383)                      #

1925)
1465
Honi Heke's War of 1845
“American ship in the Bay sent boats through the fire to save the
women and children from the Maoris."
J. B. Pompallier, “Bishop, etc. of the Western Ocean” (Catho-
lic Bishop of New Zealand), on March 13, wrote a letter to Cap-
tain McKeever in which he stated that the St. Louis had arrived
"at the very moment when the hostilities, which had been for
some time brewing among the natives and the English, arising out
of their political differences, were about to burst forth.” The
Bishop found "cause to bless Divine Providence" that his estab-
lishment had been spared; "that the natives, in their victory,"
had “not followed their ancient custom of massacring every
enemy that fell into their hands,” and that the "property of
Americans in the country” had been respected. He praised Cap-
tain McKeever for the "pacific counsels" which he had given to
the natives and stated that “the presence of the St. Louis here at
this distressing moment—your prudence in discerning the duties
of Humanity, abstracted from all feelings of nationality--the
prudent, firm, and benevolent counsels which have emanated from
you, have no doubt contributed not a little” in “causing the
Natives to practice a moderation foreign to their ancient cus-
toms.” 13
During this battle fifteen British were killed in action or died
from wounds and twenty were wounded, while about seventy
Maoris were killed and wounded.
In his report of the thirteenth, Captain McKeever expressed
the fear that one of the results of the rebellion would be “the
extermination of the New Zealanders by the English.” 14
On March 13 "the natives attacked and burned a portion of the
town of Kororareka."15 This brought about a panic among the
Europeans ashore and many were received on board the St. Louis.
The log of that vessel for the forenoon watch stated there had
been “received a number of distressed persons on board—inliabi-
tants of Kororareka, as passengers to Auckland,” that the "Na-
tives are employed in burning the remains of the town of Korora-
reka,” and that the English whaler Matilda and H.B.M.S. Hazard
got under way and commenced beating out of the harbor.” Gis-
borne, in his New Zealand, writes that all the Europeans fled and
* Published in National Intelligencer, July 30, 1845.
14 "Captains' Letters” filed in Navy Library.
15 Log of St. Louis.


  p. 1466 (#384)                      #

1466
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
that even the soldiers boarded the Hazard and sailed for Auck-
land “to the intense astonishment of the Natives.” The town
was ransacked and burnt, with the exception of the Roman Catho-
lic Mission and some American warehouses. What “rubbing
noses”—the Maori kiss—there must have been in Honi Heke's
army.
The St. Louis sailed from the Bay of Islands on March 14 with
“27 Cabin and 15 Ward Room passengers” and ninety-one other
passengers—a total of 133 children, women and men.15 She ar-
rived at Auckland in company with the Hazard on the sixteenth.
At 11:00 A.M. the following day, Governor Fitz Roy, with his
suite, visited the St. Louis and was saluted with fifteen guns on
his departure.15
On March 17, Governor Robert Fitz Roy addressed a letter16 to
Captain McKeever
Expressing the grateful thanks of the settlers in this Colony, and of the
local Government, for the humane, efficient, and ample assistance so promptly
given by the United States frigate St. Louis, under your command, and by
yourself personally, to the women and children at Russell, (or Kororareka,)
in the Bay of Islands, who were embarked by your unarmed boats on the
11th of this month. These and other distressed settlers, to the number of
about one hundred and fifty, found shelter and the kindest treatment on
board your ship, and were immediately brought, at much inconvenience, to
Auckland. I understand that it is your intention to return immediately to
the Bay of Islands; and it is very satisfactory to me to reflect that, while
your ship is there, the missionaries and their families, who have remained
at their stations, will have friends and, if it need be, a refuge within their
reach, until adequate protection can be given.
The St. Louis sailed from Auckland on March 19 with several
passengers including “two New Zealand Chiefs” and arrived at
Paihia (across the Bay of Islands from Kororareka) on the fol-
lowing day.17 Captain McKeever reported that he had returned
"to afford protection to American property at the Wahapo, as
well as to the remaining inhabitants of the Bay, until they should
procure some means of leaving it.”16 He also obtained "another
interview with hostile chiefs, and induced them to renew their
16 Published in National Intelligencer, July 30, 1845.
17 Log of St. Louis.


  p. 1467 (#385)                      #

1925)
1467
Honi Heke's War of 1845
promise of protection to the American property.” 18 They had
religiously kept their original promise but Captain McKeever
felt that since the “New Zealanders” had tasted the “sweets of
booty,” all property was in jeopardy and a renewal of their
pledge would do no harm.18 H.B.M.S. North Star assisted in
this work. Pleasant relations existed between the officers and
crews of the American and British warships. On March 31 the
North Star “shifted her berth nearer to the St. Louis.” 19
On April 3, the officers and crew of the St. Louis "cheered
H.B.M.S. North Star with three cheers which were returned. At
8:30 A.M. the North Star fired a salute of nine guns with the
American flag at the fore, which was returned by this ship with
the same number.” 19 By this time the American interests were
safe and on April 4 the St. Louis hoisted the "homeward bound
pennant,” and sailed for America. Captain McKeever had in-
tended to join the Brandywine at the Society Islands and return
to the United States in her company but the second trip to the
Bay of Islands interfered with his plans and he sailed direct for
Valparaiso.20 The St. Louis arrived at Valparaiso on May 17,
where she fell in with the Brandywine. Arriving at Rio Janeiro
she sailed from that port on August 9, 1845, and in thirty days
anchored at Hampton Roads.
Up to the end of Governor Fitz Roy's administration in Octo-
ber, 1845, the campaign against the Maoris was conducted with
loss and disaster to the British forces. The natives were unable
to contend with disciplined troops in the open, but within their
fortified pahs (villages) in the fastnesses of the forest they were
able to resist assaults with much loss to besiegers. Captain
George Grey relieved Fitz Roy, and he soon brought order out of
chaos. He not only conquered the Maoris but won their ad-
miration and love. 21
Honi Heke died, a Christian, from consumption, aged forty-
two, on August 6, 1850, kindly attended by his wife, daughter of
Hongi.
18 Published in National Intelligencer, July 30, 1845.
19 Log of St. Louis.
29 Report of Captain McKeever to Secretary, March 13, 1845, filed in
Navy Library.
* Gisborne's New Zealand.


  p. 1468 (#386)                      #

1468
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Fourteen years after the courageous work of Captain McKee-
ver and his officers, bluejackets, and marines, Captain Josiah
Tattnall, in China, sprang to the assistance of the English with
the exclamation "Blood is thicker than water !" 22 Brave Tatt-
nall, a hero of the American Navy and also of the Confederate
Navy,23 in whose memory a U. S. destroyer has been named, 24
is known to us all because of his words as well as his deeds; but
McKeever, acting neutrally excepting where "humanity should
dictate,” yet “carrying on," in "unarmed boats” under fire in
saving innocent women and children, is an “Unknown" in naval
history
*2 Foster, in his American Diplomacy in the Orient. p. 248.
* Hamersly's General Register, p. 699.
** General Order No. 382, March 28, 1918.


  p. 1469 (#387)                      #

THE ARMY INDUSTRIAL COLLEGE
By Captain Elliot Snow (CC), U. S. Navy
TNDER a modified caption' the U. S. Department of Com-
merce, in 1924, issued an interesting and valuable pamph-
let which summarizes the activities of the Division of Sim-
plified Practice and describes the services offered by that division
to American industries. Briefly, the foreword to this publication
states that “our Industrial Machine is far from perfect” and then
indicates what can be saved "through the elimination of those
wastes arising out of too high a degree of diversification in certain
basic products.” The name affixed to this is that of one of the
greatest administrators and economists that the United States
has had for many years.
The foreword closes with these words: “The rate of our ad-
vance (saving in national effort through cooperation) must be
and will be in proportion to the extent in which we all cooperate
for the elimination of waste."
The control of industry during war, by cooperation, made the
subject of this article, does not deal with any individual indus-
try—but of the industry as a whole—toward which, the War
Department is slowly but surely and steadily pushing forward
through the leadership of the Assistant Secretary of War. Too
few of the people engaged in business and industry in the United
States of America, and far too few of the officers of the United
States Navy, have any adequate conception of the great task
of industrial mobilization placed upon the War Department by
post-war legislation. The wording, in part, of the amended act,
which brings about this situation and with it the need for hearty
and intelligent cooperation on the part of all, is very brief and
directly to the point.
Simplified Practice: What it is and what it offers—Bureau of Stand-
ards—United States Department of Commerce-U. S. Government Print-
ing Office, 1924.
* Herbert Hoover. Secretary of the United States Department of Commerce.
* The National Defense Act of June 3, 1916, as amended by various
acts the last of which was approved on June 7, 1924.


  p. 1470 (#388)                      #

1470
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
gs
Sec. 5a. Hereafter the Assistant Secretary of War .... shall be
charged with .... the assurance of adequate provision for the mobiliza-
tion of materiel and industrial organization essential to wartime needs.
"Where does the Navy come in?" will be a query made by
laymen interested in that service and by members of the naval
service itself. The question can, perhaps, be answered best and
briefly by saying, that the organization evolved, and the procedure
adopted, by the Assistant Secretary of War to bring about this
"assurance of adequate provision” does not overlook the Navy,
· but invites and provides for its close cooperation. For the pur-
pose of instructing army officers of the various supply branches
in the control of industry, there is conducted under the Assistant
Secretary of War what is known as the “Army Industrial Col-
lege.” Officers of all corps of the Navy, as well as of the Army,
have the privilege of attending this college. At the time this
article was written, this college was nearing the end of the second
year of its existence with a class of twenty-six officer-students.
Four of these were naval officer-students; two captains, one of
the line and one of the construction corps, and two commanders,
one of the supply corps, the other in the medical corps.
The World War, if it emphasized no other fact, showed that
the old time idea of war is gone forever—the notion that the
Army and Navy are the sole war-making agencies of a nation.
War is now made by a whole nation in arms and it involves in
its prosecution and outcome, the future of every man, woman,
and child; all are affected in one way or another and cooperative
effort assumes the highest order of importance. As far as industry
is concerned, we now know, too, that to defend one's self at war
"every drop of blood shed on the battle fields has to be mingled
with six drops of sweat of the brow by those at home in the
shops.”
It ought not to be necessary to bespeak for the Army Industrial
College the cooperation of the Army, Navy, and public at large,
because the simplified industrial practices it advocates and teaches
are no different from, nor less than those referred to in the open-
ing paragraph of this article. These all point the way toward and
hold out the hope of reducing, in the next war, “the sweat of the
brow to perhaps but four drops and the blood spilled to less prob-
ably than half a drop.”


  p. 1471 (#389)                      #

1925]
1471
The Army Industrial College
As it develops more and more the Army Industrial College will
rank higher and higher in its order of importance to the nation.
Even now, to mention it in conjunction with the Army War Col-
lege is but one way of indicating the position the former is fairly
earning for itself. The subjects of budgetary control, the con-
servation of our resources, and the study of the world's com-
modities are taught. Problems are given involving a study of
the principles of priority and the allocation of industrial facilities.
The value and effect of standardization and simplification are
brought out; the great war question involving transportation,
labor, and power control is looked into and investigated from all
angles. Lectures are given by experts on World War experiences
and by officers actually engaged in planning for the procurement of
various special types of equipment. A part of the instruction is
given by conference, dealing with the solution of a problem by a
group of officer-students. The closing problem of each session is
a war game in which all officers participate.
The regular full time course for officer-students is five inonths.
There are two sessions a year, the first commencing in September
and the second during the following February. To accommodate
officers of the Reserve Corps, special fifteen-day sessions are
arranged. These offer a splendid opportunity for reserve officers
(of the Navy as well as the Army) to become acquainted, in a
practical and interesting way, with the plans for war control of
industry by the government, An excellent description of the ap-
plication of this to the textile industry has been recently published
and is well worth a very careful reading by everyone. *
The younger, yet already well experienced officers of both ser-
vices, and their coequals in civil life throughout the land, who
chance to read these words, should remember that "by the time the
next eruption comes it may be they who are responsible for check-
ing the searing overflow with their sons in the lava.” Is it the part
of wisdom to let things slide this year—now-instead of courage-
ously insisting upon whole-hearted support of this movement for
war control of industry by government cooperation during peace ?5
4 "The Textile Industry in National Defense"-Dwight Davis, Asst.
Secretary of War. Annual Review and forecast number of the Textile
World. Vol. LXVII. February 7, 1925.
* Paraphrased from J. M. Barrie's rectorial address on "Courage” de-
livered at St. Andrews University (Scotland) May 3, 1922.


  p. 1472 (#390)                      #


POWELL'S "Perry's Victory On Lake Erie"
(On the staircase of the Senate Wing of Capitol at Washington.).


  p. 1473 (#391)                      #

POWELL'S “PERRY'S VICTORY ON LAKE ERIE”
By CHARLES LEE Lewis, Assistant PROFESSOR, U. S. N. A.
THERE has probably been more controversy over incidents
connected with the Battle of Lake Erie than about any other
engagement in American naval history. Indeed, in the war
of words which was fought by the adherents of Perry and Elliott,
after the actual battle, the amount of ink expended almost
equalled all the blood that was spilled by the American seamen in
the fight itself. It is not, however, the purpose of this paper to go
into that old controversy as to whether Elliott was at fault in not
bringing the Niagara soon enough to the support of Perry in his
flagship, the Lawrence, at a critical time in the battle. But there
is a difference of opinion as to other incidents during this crisis,
which invites investigation and yields some interesting results.
The popularly accepted opinion as to the details of Perry's
passage in the small boat from the Lawrence to the Niagara is
expressed in the painting by William Henry Powell, entitled
"Perry's Victory on Lake Erie.” This painting was authorized
by the Ohio General Assembly in 1857, and the original now
hangs in the rotunda of the State Capitol & Columbus. Sub-
sequently, Powell reproduced the picture on a larger scale for
the national government, and this copy was placed on the stair-
case of the Senate wing of the National Capitol. Photographic
copies of this painting have been used as illustrations in many
different histories, and a large number of people have been natur-
ally led to believe that its main features were based on the facts
of history, but an investigation into the available sources raises
a number of questions as to the historical accuracy of the paint-
ing. In the first place, where is Perry's famous motto-flag, bear-
ing the words of the dying Lawrence, “Don't give up the ship!”?
The flag which he bears over his shoulder, in the picture, is cer-
tainly not that flag, for it had no stars on it at all. Furthermore,
are Perry and the other persons in the boat correctly uniformed?
And, more important still, are the correct number of people with
Perry; particularly, was he accompanied by his small brother?


  p. 1474 (#392)                      #

1474
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Now, as to the motto-flag, there have been written some very
wild statements about its appearance. In a paper by Commander
J. G. Eaton, written for the Military Historical Society of Massa-
chusetts, the flag is described as being “some fifty-seven feet
long.” Even as authoritative a writer as Soleyl describes it as
"a square red flag," while Niles? quotes from a letter of an eye-
witness of the battle the following: "On the flag was painted, in
characters legible to the whole fleet, the dying words of the im-
mortal Lawrence.” As a matter of fact, the old flag, made of
homespun, has the letters of the motto stitched in white on a blue
ground; it is about eight feet by ten feet in size, and the letters
vary from twelve to fourteen inches in height. As to whether
Perry took the flag with him in the small boat, the most extreme
statement to the contrary is found in the Life of Elliott which was
published anonymously in 1835. Here it is stated that Magratis
(one of the American officers in Perry's feet), when returning to
the Niagara from the Lawrence with a boat load of shot, picked
up the motto-flag which he found floating in the lake; that he car-
ried it on board the Niagara; that Perry afterwards saw it there,
inquired how it was brought on board, and proposed to hoist it;
but that Elliott suggested the contrary, saying, “He was not very
desirous of having a flag hoisted on his ship, which had been
hauled down from a ship that had been given up.” Probably, only
a heated controversy could have produced such distorted facts, and
even Cooper, who was one of Elliott's staunchest supporters, re-
peats none of these contentions in either his History of the Naz'y.
1839, or his Naval Biographies, 1846, both of which, it will be
noted, were published after the anonymous Life of Elliott.
Mackenziestates that the flag was left Aying on board the Law-
rence, and that it was hauled down with her other colors after
Perry had reached the Niagara; and that Magrath claimed that,
when he was sent to the Lawrence for shot, he unbent the flag and
took it on board the Niagara, which had by that time become
Perry's flagship. On the other hand, there is very good evidence
that Perry took the flag with him in the small boat. In the first
* History of the Naval Academy, p. 219.
? Life of Perry, 1821.
* Life of Elliott, p. 194.
* Life of Perry, 1840, Vol II, p. 45.


  p. 1475 (#393)                      #

1925]
1475
Perry's Victory on Lake Erie
place, there is a sketch of the life of Perry, written by Washington
Irving, in which the following statement is made: "Giving the
ship, therefore, in charge to Lieutenant Yarnall, who had already
distinguished himself by his bravery, he hauled down his union,
bearing the motto of Lawrence, and taking it under his arm, or-
dered to be put on board the Niagara.” This sketch was written
not very long after the battle. Furthermore, Lossinge has addi-
tional evidence, as follows: "He had already ordered his boat to
be lowered, his broad pennant and the banner with the glorious
words to be taken down. .... This (the motto-flag) was rolled
up and cast to him, after he entered his barge, by Hosea Sargent,
now (1867) living at Cambridge, Massachusetts.” Mahan? also
has a statement of the first importance that is pertinent to this
question. He says: “The following extract from the diary of Dr.
Usher Parsons, surgeon of the Lawrence, possesses value, the
more so as it is believed to have been copied from the log of the
vessel, which afterwards disappeared. The phraseology is that of
a log and a seaman, not of a physician.” Mahan then quotes as
follows from Parson's Diarys : "At 1:30, so entirely disabled we
could work the brig no longer. At 2:00 P.M., most of the guns
were dismounted, breechings gone, or carriages knocked to pieces.
At half-past two, when not another gun could be worked or fired,
Captain Perry hauled down the fighting flag, which bore this
motto 'Don't give up the ship, and repaired on board the Niagara,
where he raised it again. In ten minutes after we struck.” It
seems conclusive, therefore, that Perry took the famous motto-flag
with him in the small boat, and Powell should have shown this flag
in his painting instead of the strange banner which he has placed
over Perry's shoulder.
Now, as to the uniforms, there seem to be no navy regulations
to which one can turn for details as to the dress of either the
sailors or the officers of that period, but an examination of the
illustrations in histories and naval biographies written soon after
the War of 1812, as well as of old prints of the same time, will
reveal that Powell has dressed his people in the fashion of the Civil
In Analectic Magazine of December, 1813.
• Fieldbook of the War of 1812, p. 526.
* Sea Power in Its Relation to the War of 1812, Vol. II, p. 90, footnote.
• Publications of the Rhode Island Historical Society, Vol. VII, p. 244.


  p. 1476 (#394)                      #

1476
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
War rather than that of the War of 1812. Moreover, there seems
to be a question as to whether Perry wore his undress uniform,
as pictured by Powell. Cooper,' wishing to call attention to the
fact that the danger to which Perry exposed himself had been ex-
aggerated, says: “It is scarcely probable a single gun was trained
on the boat, more especially as Captain Perry was dressed in a
round-about, and could not be recognized.” This is substantiated
by Captain W. W. Dobbins.10 The father of Dobbins was a sail-
ing master, who assisted Perry in the building of the ships of his
squadron, and served actively on the lakes during the war. The
younger Dobbins, in writing his account, had unusual facilities in
the way of reference to his father's letters, papers, and memoranda
and notes made at the time of the battle; and, in fact, the manu-
script was submitted to the father, who approved of it in every
way.11 Among those letters were many from Dr. Parsons, to
whom there are frequent references throughout Dobbins' history
of the battle. After closing his account of the fighting, Dobbins
describes the return of Perry to his shattered flagship to receive
the surrender of the British officers, and in that connection?' he
writes, “During the day Perry had worn a round-jacket; he now
resumed his undress uniform to receive the officers of the captured
vessels in tendering their swords, as a formal submission.”
Mackenziel? also agrees with Dobbins' statement; but Lossing13
says that when Perry was on the point of setting out for the
Niagara "he laid aside his blue nankeen sailor's jacket which he
had worn all day, and put on the uniform of his rank.” The state-
ment is made on the authority of a letter from the Reverend
Francis Vinton, D.D., a son-in-law of Commodore Perry, to
Lossing. It is more likely, however, under the circumstances, that
Perry did not take the time, at that hazardous point in the battle,
to change his uniform, but rather that he wore the inconspicuous
round-jacket that he had put on at the beginning of the battle, and
did not change to the uniform of his rank until after his return
to the Lawrence when the victory was won.
* Battle of Erie, 1843, p. 46.
10 History of the Battle of Lake Erie, 1876, p. 58.
11 Letter from Librarian, Erie Public Library, Oct. 24, 1923.
12 Life of Perry, Vo. I, p. 264.
» Fieldbook of the War of 1812, p. 526.


  p. 1477 (#395)                      #

1925)
1477
Perry's Victory on Lake Erie
The third question, which has to do with the number of per-
sons in the boat, can be answered more conclusively. According to
naval historians, the number of those who accompanied Perry has
varied from four to eight persons. The earlier authorities, how-
ever, seem to be in agreement, if their statements are carefully
compared. The Naval Monument, 1816, quotes on page 91 a letter
from a naval officer, written from Erie and dated October 7, 1813,
in which it is stated that there were four sailors who rowed Perry's
small boat. Other early authorities, like Niles,14 Clark,15 and
Washington Irving, 16 do not give the number of the rowers nor the
total number in the boat. Irving, however, does mention in his
sketch the following very significant fact: "In leaving the Law-
rence he (Perry) gave his pilot choice either to remain on board,
or to accompany him; the faithful fellow told him, 'He'd stick by
him to the last,' and jumped into the boat. He (Perry) went off
from his ship in his usual gallant manner, standing up in the stern
of the boat, until the crew absolutely pulled him down among
them."'17 This would make, then, in addition to the four rowers
already mentioned a total of five persons in the boat besides Perry
himself. A very striking confirmation of this number is found in
a pamphlet entitled Battle of Lake Erie, a speech which was de-
livered by Dr. Usher Parsons, the surgeon of the Lawrence, before
the Rhode Island Historical Society on February 16, 1852. In
this address, Dr. Parsons says: “Perry at this moment, having
fought his own ship to the last, entered a boat with five men and
rowed to the Niagara." These facts, then, would appear to indi-
cate that Powell is in error in placing six oarsmen in Perry's boat.
But this is a matter of small consequence compared to the ques- .
tion as to whether the little lad, Alexander Perry, accompanied
his brother in the passage between the two ships. None of the
early authorities that I have already mentioned, such as Irving,
Clark, Niles, and the Naval Monument, say one word about the
little brother making this perilous passage. Nor do later writers,
like Cooper18 and Mackenzie,19 give Alexander Perry a place in
"Life of Perry, 1821.
* Naval History of the United States, 1814.
* Sketch of Perry in Analectic Magazine of December, 1813.
17 Ibid., Vol. II, p. 497.
* History of the Navy of the United States, 1839.


  p. 1478 (#396)                      #

1478
[Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
the incident. Mackenzie,20 however, in speaking of certain things
which took place immediately after the return of Perry to his
flagship, the Lawrence, to receive the surrender of the British
officers, does refer to the little brother as "dozing in his ham-
mock.” Light is thrown on the meaning of this phrase by another
authority, who states positively that the lad remained on board the
Lawrence, while his brother was away on the hazardous under-
taking during the last phase of the battle. Sandford21 is the
authority for the statement, which is as follows: “In Dr. Parson's
address at Cleveland, on the tenth of September, 1860, is the fol-
lowing interesting item: 'Perry walked aft. . ... Then, casting
his eyes about, he inquired, “Where is my brother?” This brother
was a young midshipman of thirteen years. He had during the
battle acted as aid in running with orders to different parts of the
ship-for you must know that in the din and uproar of battle
orders can hardly be heard at three feet distance. We made a
general stir to look him up, not without fears that he had been
knocked overboard, but he was soon found in his berth, asleep,
exhausted by the exercise and excitement of the day.' ” 22 This
same statement is also repeated by Dobbins,23 who quotes it on the
authority of the same Dr. Parsons. It is, therefore, rather re-
markable that later writers, like Lossing, Bancroft, Roosevelt,
Maclay, and others, should have stated that Perry took his small
brother with him, when there seems to be no early authority for
such a statement, but first ratè evidence that he did not have his
brother with him. Perhaps the blame will have to be laid to
Cooper,24 who seems to have been the first to make the statement.
Powell should not, therefore, be censured too critically for the
historical shortcomings in his painting, for it appears that the
naval historians themselves have shown a tendency to pass state-
ments along without taking the trouble of verifying them. But
the painting does serve as 'a center for the discussion of the details
10 Life of Perry, 1840.
20 Ibid., Vol. II, p. 265.
*1 History of Erie County, Pennsylvania, 1894, p. 243, footnote.
22 Mr. Frank H. Severance, Secretary-Treasurer of the Buffalo Historical
Association, called my attention to this.
* History of the Battle of Lake Erie, p. 80.
Naval Biographies, Vol. II, p. 187.


  p. 1479 (#397)                      #

1925]
1479
Perry's Victory on Lake Erie
of this incident which took place during the crisis of the Battle
of Lake Erie, and it is hoped that artistic license will not seem to
have been handled too severely by historic accuracy in this attempt
to show that, in the painting, Perry's famous motto-flag should
have been in evidence, that neither Perry nor his boat crew are
properly uniformed, and finally, that there are too many persons
in the boat, as there were only four oarsmen, and young Alexander
Perry was left on the Lawrence.


  p. 1480 (#398)                      #

THE PACIFIC ZONE
BRITISH VIEW OF UNITED STATES NAVAL POLICY
A GENERAL COMMUNITY OF INTERESTS
The Coming Australian Visit by American Fleet
By Sir HERBERT RUSSELL
Editor's Note.-Attention is invited, in connection with this article, to
“The Situation in the Pacific,” by Major K. B. Ferguson, R.G.A., Ret., in
the Professional Notes, this issue.
\HE visit of the entire United States Pacific fleet to Aus-
I tralia in July next, on the conclusion of the grand ma-
næuvres in Hawaiian waters, is an event which will bring
home to the British nation a realisation of the meaning of Ameri-
can sea power as nothing else could. There is some bewilderment
of thought upon the subject in the British mind. The colossal
programme of naval construction which the United States sud-
denly announced to a war-weary world in 1919 was the starting
point of this bewilderment. With the Washington Agreement
the shipbuilding programme of the United States was entirely
revised. This epoch-making achievement, the first materialisation
in history of the doctrine of international limitation of armaments
by compact, was hailed with profound satisfaction in Great Britain.
She willingly waived her centuries' long tradition of naval su-
premacy in favour of a standard of perfect equality with the
United States. The vanishing of the threat of an unreasoning
rivalry was greeted with a sigh of genuine relief.
But presently there appeared signs of dissatisfaction with the
Washington Agreement on the part of the United States. Alle-
gations were openly made that Great Britain was not keeping
faith. Mr. Secretary Daniels went so far as to state that the
British were increasing the gun elevation of their older battle-
ships—an act in violation of the Washington pact. It is true
that he handsomely withdrew the suggestion on a disclaimer
from the British Ambassador. But the "filibuster" school had


  p. 1481 (#399)                      #

1925)
1481
The Pacific Zone
got going, and were not to be denied. Mr. William Shearer ap-
peared as their arch disciple. He preached the creed that the
British Navy was greatly superior to the United States Navy,
always with the covert suggestion that this was entirely the result
of bad faith on the part of the British Admiralty.
Once again there arose mental confusion in Great Britain as
to the meaning of all this pother. Possibly there was a tinge of
resentment at the frequent innuendoes which were so palpably
without justification. But since a perfectly frank understanding
existed between the Governments of the two powers, this slight
stirring of popular sentiment did not greatly matter. The British
Press generally took it as a form of propaganda, designed to
stimulate American opinion into demanding an increase of naval
strength. But where the British Press, in its turn, also became
a little puzzled was in its attempts to discover the real necessity
for this increase in naval strength. Was not the 5-5-3 ratio, as
between the United States, Great Britain, and Japan, a sufficient
standard of security? Great Britain has never dreamed of enter-
ing into naval rivalry with America, during the past half-century,
at any rate; she does not seriously believe that responsible
American opinion has ever dreamed of entering into naval rivalry
with her. Despite the warnings of the filibusters, common-sense
refuses to contemplate a contingency for which there are absolutely
no grounds in the respective aims, policies, and interests of the
two countries.
It is unquestionably the fact that British public opinion is very
vague upon the whole subject of United States sea power. Its
views upon its own Navy are perfectly definite and intelligible.
The necessity for a powerful sea defence is self-evident. Star-
vation is never more than a few weeks ahead, and only kept there
by the freedom of the seas. Only a few leagues of water sepa-
rate England from potential enemies. But the United States is
in no such case. She is a self-contained country, so far as the
necessities of life go. The nearest possible potential enemy, which
in any sense could be called a sea power, is 3,000 miles from her
shores. Her world commitments, in the way of dependencies,
are very small, and on the whole not very important to her gen-
eral prosperity. Why, then, all this filibustering?


  p. 1482 (#400)                      #

1482
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The intelligent American (and I do not suggest that there is
such a thing as an unintelligent one) will have little difficulty in
realizing the British angle. But in realizing it, he will likewise
come to the conclusion that I am speaking the literal truth when
I say that British public opinion is very vague upon the whole
subject of United States sea power. It does not understand that
the sea has played a larger part in the history of the United States
than in that of any other nation, its own perhaps excepted.
Speaking as one whose vocation lies largely in the study of
naval strategical problems, I do not hesitate to say that were I
an American I should belong to the Big Navy party. I do not
think I should be a filibuster, although I might easily be con-
verted to the view that the end justified the means. A nation
can only take and maintain her place in the world by her power
to assert it. Germany is a case in point. Germany today is
probably stronger in population, and quite as strong in industrial
capacity as she was before the war. But who will pretend that
her word carries much weight? When she had the biggest army
and the second biggest Navy in the world she had only to speak
to be listened to and understood.
American strategical policy has never been formulated in
definite authoritative terms, so far as I am aware. The United
States has never, for example, openly proclaimed the doctrine of
the hegemony of the Pacific. Yet it is quite clear that she means
no other power shall have the hegemony of the Pacific. There
are only two nations which could compete with her for it. One
is Great Britain, which does not aspire to it; the other is Japan,
which very possibly does.
British naval opinion clearly recognizes that American pre-
eminence in the Pacific simply amounts to lightening its own
burthen, and therefore tacitly acquiesces in it. Personally I have
a very friendly feeling for the Japanese-most Englishmen have.
But it would be faithless to deny that a day may come when they
will prove a serious menace to the peace of the world, not neces-
sarily because they will seek war, but because they will not be
able to help themselves. Their population is rapidly approaching
the bursting point of territorial limitations, and it is with refer-
ence to their coming necessity for wider elbow room in the world
that their position as a great naval power must be considered.


  p. 1483 (#401)                      #

1925)
1483
The Pacific Zone
Australia has a keen perception of this aspect of the future, and
the visit of the Pacific Fleet to its shores therefore has a signifi-
cance for the people of that country which goes far deeper than
mere cordiality.
Naval policy is always shaped by the guiding idea of some
objective, hypothetical or real. When there is no real objective
to which to respond, such as the German Navy furnished to
Great Britain before the war, the natural course is to look
around, see where the next strongest sea power is concentrating
his forces, presume certain strategical schemes from his disposi-
tions, and proceed upon the idea of checkmating any disadvan-
tageous development of these. In pre-war days, when there
were seven first-class naval powers, this was called maintaining
the balance of power. Now that there are only three first-class
tiaval powers we can no longer employ such a subtle definition of
purpose. Besides, the Washington ratio determines the balance
although it is true that this has nothing to say about the distri-
bution of naval strength; the United States can send the whole
of her feet to cruise permanently in the Irish Sea if she wants
to without violating anything more than elementary sanity.
Japan is the great naval power of the Far East. From her
geographical position she possesses an obvious initial advantage
in any rivalry for the dominance of the Pacific as represented by
the opportunities for advantageously posting her forces so as to
command zones of paramount importance to international trade.
The British Navy has taken up the “interior line" of European
sea-communications, and the great preponderance of its striking
force is permanently in the Mediterranean. The United States
looks east and sees the Atlantic deserted as a naval zone. She
looks west, and across a very wide range it is true, beholds the
Japanese Fleet spreading on the Pacific. There, then, lies her
objective, call it hypothetical or real as you please.
It is never a safe doctrine to take it for granted that a country
does not want war so long as it is fully armed and strategically
emplaced for war. Statesmen are great opportunists, and Oliver
Cromwell spoke the true precept for preserving peace when he
said, "Put your trust in Providence—but keep your powder dry!"
The United States gave away a great deal at the Washington
Conference when she agreed not further to fortify Manila or


  p. 1484 (#402)                      #

1484
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Guam as naval bases. Great Britain gave away very much less
when she correspondingly agreed with regard to Hong Kong,
because she had made up her mind to develop the strategical hub
of Singapore into a dreadnought dockyard.
The British Empire has never questioned that the naval policy
of the United States is dictated by the desire to maintain peace.
Dominance of the Pacific with her stands as a safe-guarding
measure, designed to uphold the principle of freedom of the seas;
not to menace it. Whatever other motives may lie behind the
visit of the Pacific Fleet to Australia, it is a grand demonstration.
For the interesting point, from the purely naval view, is that the
Pacific Fleet will be far beyond the scope of its own bases. If
a state of war existed it would be in practically the same position
as Admiral Rodman's battleship division when it went into the
North Sea.
Maybe it is rather straining a point to read strategical interpre-
tations into an amicable visit. But any movement outside of
purely normal routine on the part of a great war feet is bound
to challenge reflection. It is impossible to dissociate this Aus.
tralian visit from the idea of a common purpose in naval policy
between Great Britain and the United States, in the Pacific at
any rate. In 1919, Earl Jellicoe, fresh home from a world tour
of strategical observation, recommended the formation of a
British Pacific Battle Fleet. He pointed out that the Great War
had destroyed all pre-existent orientation of sea power, probably
for many years to come, and that the future zone of activity lay
in the Pacific. No sane man will believe that he had any refer-
ence to United States naval policy in making this proposal. Had
there been any question of rivalry the British response would
obviously have lain in North American or West Indian waters.
The British Admiralty realized that a war-weary nation would
never sanction Jellicoe's scheme, savouring as it did of prepara-
tions for another possible conflict, so they merely pigeon-holed
the project. But it was out of this that the decision with regard
to Singapore crystallised. Great Britain came to Washington
resolved upon Singapore; she would have withdrawn sooner than
sacrifice it. The United States, with characteristic breadth of
vision, offered no opposition. Possibly she rather approved the


  p. 1485 (#403)                      #

1925)
1485
The Pacific Zone
scheme. Japan was placated by the promise to leave the re-
sources of Hong Kong untouched.
The temporary abandonment of the Singapore project by the
British Labour Government resulted in a revelation of Australia's
view as to the possibilities of the naval situation in the Far East.
But for the timely visit of the Special Service Squadron, which
brought a practical assurance of the protection of the British
Fleet, the outcry which followed the decision not to proceed with
the Malaya base would have taken a much more pronounced
form. As it was, certain leading Australian newspapers openly
accused the British Government of betrayal, and spoke of looking
to the United States for security. Sometimes it is necessary to be
ruthlessly frank in order to be quite clear. Australia realizes
that American hegemony of the Pacific involves no sort of threat
to her. Japanese hegemony very well might. Great Britain, at
the other end of the earth, understands the same thing, although
with very much less vivid perception. Ethnological conditions
form the real background to a proper perspective of sea power in
the Pacific. American commercial enterprise has all the scope
it wants in Australia under existing circumstances; the question
of any change in the constitution of Australia does not therefore
present itself. Japan is faced with limitations which it is easy to
understand she would like to see removed.
The recent conference of British admirals at Singapore dis-
cussed the strategical situation which would arise in the event of
war in the Pacific, the Commander-in-Chief of the Royal Aus-
tralian Navy taking part. There can be war in the Pacific only
if the one strictly Pacific naval power is a combatant. British
policy is concerned with maintaining trade, keeping open the
ocean highways, and defending the territories which come within
the Commonwealth of British Nations. But Great Britain is
not prepared to transfer the bulk of her sea power from Euro-
pean waters into a zone which holds no active menace. Such a
step would be provocative, even were it feasible. It cannot be
feasible for some years to come. It is out of the question to
despatch a battle fleet into a zone which has no base to receive it.
Therefore it is quite in accord with British policy that the
United States should make the naval dominance of the Pacific her


  p. 1486 (#404)                      #

1486
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
particular business. I am not suggesting that the United States
is merely acting from a desire to conciliate British policy. For
America the Pacific has a more intimate significance than it holds
for Great Britain. It washes her western frontier and in ever
increasing degree it calls her trade. The economic effect of the
Panama Canal is to be strikingly seen in the development of the
western states since it was finished. Not only the coastwise
trade, but trade with the Far East and Australia, has increased
amazingly since August, 1914, when the waterway was first opened
to traffic. The coastal trade might well become of vital im-
portance to the United States in wartime. Homer Lea foresaw
this when, in his book, The Valour of Ignorance, he wrote, “With
the exception of the Monroe Doctrine, no undertaking calls for
greater naval and military expansion than the building of the
Panama Canal.”
As Great Britain understands American naval policy in the
Pacific it aims at (1) Maintaining the Monroe Doctrine, (2) De-
fence of American Pacific possessions and (3) Influence in the
big problems, especially those concerned with trade, in the Far
East. In all this there is nothing that can be said to come into
conflict with British Empire policy. On the other hand there is
a good deal that is quite in common with it. Naval strategy
tends to long views. It is not the situation as it exists today
which calls for any concern. Great Britain is quite prepared to
wait ten years for the completion of the Singapore base which
might be finished in two years were there any real necessity.
But the future holds shadows of disquieting possibilities. The
position into which China is drifting may become such as im-
peratively to demand intervention, and this may lead to anything.
The coming overflow of Japan's teeming millions might well pre-
cipitate a clash if any determined effort is made either to arrest
it or to determine its flow into certain channels only.
If the United States were drawn into a Pacific war the interest
of the British Empire in the struggle would be direct and pro-
found. If the British Empire were launched into a Pacific war,
America could not remain a disinterested spectator of the con-
flict. Here, I take it, we have the unwritten, unspoken meaning
of the visit of the Pacific Fleet to Australia. But neither the


  p. 1487 (#405)                      #

1925]
1487
The Pacific Zone
United States nor the British Empire want to be drawn into a
struggle in the Pacific. Their respective policies are directed to
making it not worth while on the part of any power to force a
war.
I think it is only fair to add that neither does Japan want
war. But will she be able to realize her ultimate needs without
coming into conflict with other nations? In this event she would
not shirk war. She would enter upon a conflict with an immense
initial strategic advantage inasmuch as she would be on the de-
fensive, in her own environment. It is not my present purpose
to discuss the possible causes and character of such a war. I
merely refer to it as a contingency which is in the far back of
our heads when we focus Pacific sea power.
The British Navy League, in its regular St. George's Day
"message,” considers it a "pregnant fact” that a United States
battle fleet is visiting Australia, which has never seen a British
battle fleet. I confess I am not quite clear as to what this means,
even in the sense of propaganda. Does it imply that the British
Admiralty ought to send the Mediterranean Fleet to Sydney?
Such an unprecedented step would have a directly provocative sug-
gestion. Australia must take the British battle fleet for granted
without seeing it. The United States Pacific Fleet may be going
somewhat outside of its normal cruising zone in visiting Aus-
tralia, but not to the degree of challenging any political comment.
The British battle fleets are based in European waters, and for
one of them to be ordered to the other side of the world would
amount to a gesture which would undoubtedly react unfavourably
upon the opinion of nations who would not unnaturally regard
such a demonstration as a mailed fist show.
The Pacific Fleet is assured of a warm welcome in Australia-
a welcome which will be endorsed throughout the British Empire.
No such formidable gathering of warships has ever visited another
country upon a flag-showing mission. The British Channel Fleet
which visited Cherbourg to lay the seeds of the entente cordiale
consisted of eight battleships. The French Northern Fleet which
returned the visit the following year was numerically stronger
but of a lower fighting value. With the exception of the battle-
cruiser Renown, which brought the Prince of Wales to New


  p. 1488 (#406)                      #

1488
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
York, and called at Honolulu, I cannot recall that any British
capital ship has ever visited either the United States nor any
of the United States dependencies, although cruiser visits are
fairly frequent. But this is the result of geographical conditions.
It quite fits in with the natural order of things for the Pacific
Fleet to visit Australia. It would set a good many chancellories
wondering and talking if the British Atlantic Fleet went on a
voyage to Manila Bay.


  p. 1489 (#407)                      #

DISCUSSION
Proposed Administrative Changes in Navy Department
(See page 357, March, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
COMMANDER H. C. DINGER, U. S. Navy.—Commander Fisher deserves
great credit for bringing up a subject which is now of great concern. With
the reduced appropriation, it is incumbent on the Navy to obtain maximum
results from every dollar spent and any suggestion that has in view the
securing of more real worth for every navy dollar spent merits careful
consideration. It is quite generally admitted that many things are wrong
here and there. There is lost motion, wasted effort, and, in some cases,
inefficient expenditure of funds. How are these conditions to be improved ?
Is the fault in the present split-up of the Navy Department and bureau
organization? Are the administrative methods wrong or is the existing
system ineffective or inefficiently operated ?
As to the practicability of the suggested changes, I am personally in-
clined to agree more with the opinions expressed by Captain DuBose in his
discussion.
The desire to have an organization that will give a direct unbroken
chain of authority is well founded. It is, however, very doubtful whether
this can be accomplished for the material of the Navy without very revo-
lutionary changes.
It can be done by building up a special organization in the Navy respon-
sible for the production of material and for its repair. The personnel of
such an organization would have to be especially trained in various tech-
nical branches and would have to be more or less permanently attached to
such an organization. To do this, however, many cherished ideals of having
those who operate the vessels, build and repair them might have to be
sacrificed. This would be something like a combination of the Bureaus of
Yards and Docks, Construction and Repair and Engineering into some
amalgamated unit for the control of industrial yards and the material of
ships. This would be a rather large unit and there may be some question
as to whether it would be a workable one and whether it would maintain
that touch with the sea-going fleet, which in our Navy is considered so
important.
The proposal of a separate Bureau of Design does not seem advisable and
if this thing is to be done at all, the Bureau of Design should be combined
with “Maintenance.” However, there still remains the difficulty of adjust-
ing the activities of the supply corps with the proposed Bureau of Main-
tenance. The supply corps is the corps best fitted for storekeeping and


  p. 1490 (#408)                      #

1490
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
accounting duties and there is no reason why any defects in either of these
fields should not be remedied by the members of the supply corps as well
as by anyone else. Furthermore, the Bureau of Ordnance and Bureau of
Aeronautics will also have work on ships and this would have to be handled
substantially as at present.
The coordinating and directing authority would have to be one especially
familiar with the technical side of naval material. Some such organiza-
tion which would then operate the industrial yards might secure better
economy than we now obtain. This thing has been worked out at navy
yards but it would be more difficult to work it out at the Navy Department.
As long as we have corps of specialist officers, each of these groups must
have some head to maintain properly their efficiency, individually and as an
organization. This has been supplied by the various staff and material
bureaus. If this is done away with, it is feared that much of good will be
lost.
It therefore appears to be a more practicable proposition to arrange mat-
ters so that the staff corps and material specialists will each have a bureau
to look to for direction and to maintain each material bureau in as efficient
shape as possible. Then provide an efficient coordinating authority to cause
these bureaus to work together in the best possible way; also, develop a
better budgeting of the naval appropriations and with this a simplification of
the accounting system. By these means and by allowing local commandants
more authority in details, a great many of the troubles cited by Commander
Fisher can be done away with. At present, the Bureau of S. & A. and the
Navy Yard Division are responsible for our accounting system. It can be
made just as simple as these authorities permit it to be.
We have various planning and coordinating activities in the Navy De-
partment. However, these have been engaged largely in working up theo-
retical plans for future possibilities. For actually taking up any immediate
projects and deciding on what is to be done, there are usually no definite
agencies except the bureaus or the appointment of special boards.
The ideal of securing greatest economy and efficiency in the production
of our naval material can be approached in various ways and most of what
is desired can be accomplished without any change in bureaus. Most of
the possible improvements can be secured by the bureaus themselves. If
storekeeping and accounting are at fault, it is a matter for the Bureau of
Supplies and Accounts to adjust. If repairs or alterations are improperly
authorized, the bureau concerned is responsible. There are, however, many
things that should be handled in a uniform manner by the several bureaus
and there are other matters where several bureaus are involved that must
be coordinated. This situation requires a proper coordinating authority in
the Department for control and supervision over the material work of the
bureaus. It must be clothed with ample authority and be staffed with
expert personnel adequate for the exercise of such control. Such co-
ordinating office or authority should have the power to direct action with-
out necessarily obtaining the consent of all the individual bureaus, but


  p. 1491 (#409)                      #

1925]
1491
Discussion
.
matters belonging exclusively to bureau jurisdiction should not be inter-
fered with.
Can the Navy Yard Division and the Material Section of Operations
be developed into the desired coordinating and material planning authority ?
If this can be done, no special changes in the burcaus are necessary. The
Navy Yard Division and the Material Section certainly do function very
well in many directions and there appears to be no particular reason why
this functioning should not become more efficient and more effective as
more experience is gained. By this method the changes would be less revo-
lutionary and any mistakes made could be more easily corrected.
At present it looks as if the coordinating authority for material mat-
ters in the Navy Department is split up too much and that policy and doc-
rine in regard to material matters are wavering and not sufficiently definite.
The suggested Bureau of Maintenance might solve some of the troubles,
but it is rather doubtful whether it would accomplish as much as Com-
mander Fisher suggests.
What is needed is an expert and intelligent coordinating control of the
bureaus and a recognition by the bureau personnel that there must be a band
leader somewhere, otherwise there will be no harmonious music.
The ideals expressed and desired by Commander Fisher are very desirable
and if they could be carried out would make for greater economy and effi-
ciency. The process of unscrambling, however, is not so simple. A
beginning can be made by drawing up a more simple budget of appropria-
tions and then devising a central allotment office to distribute the allotments.
The large working appropriations might be made for general services instead
of under any particular bureau. We could have one appropriation, "Main-
tenance of the Navy," which would provide for all material expenses on
ships and at navy yards that would not be charged to any bureau appro-
priation. Each bureau would still have to have at least one appropriation,
but instead of about sixty we might get along with about twenty appro-
priations.
The appropriation “maintenance" could take over the naval working fund,
the naval supply account and all general stores accounts, it could pay for
all repairs and general upkeep of ships and navy yards and should be
allowed to be continuous, all balances being available for the next year as
is now the practice for "increases of navy." This appropriation also could
serve as a profit and loss and working account and other appropriations
could be charged out of it at rate costs, not absolute actual costs. In other
words, practically all of the advantages claimed for one appropriation
under a new Bureau of Maintenance can be secured by setting up a large
and flexible "maintenance” appropriation in which any and all bureaus
might participate. It should pay for all the classified force of the Navy
Department except special employees directly under any particular bureau.
Limits could be set for different services in the budget as might be thought
proper.


  p. 1492 (#410)                      #

1492
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The Navy Yard Division would be the logical custodian of the appro-
priation "maintenance” for the Secretary of the Navy. Such a working
appropriation would remove some of the difficulties now laid to our depart-
ment organization and it would save some money. It might reduce navy
overhead expenses by as much as five per cent because it would simplify
accounting, storekeeping and purchasing and would enable maintenance
work on our ships to be done according to actual needs instead of the
availability of funds under particular bureaus.
The naval supply account has proven itself a very useful instrument.
The proposed "maintenance" appropriation would very greatly broaden its
scope and do for repair work what the naval supply account was able to do
for stores.
Local requisitions for purchase of articles against "maintenance" should
be approved by local commandants, subject to general instructions issued
by the Navy Yard Division or the bureau having cognizance of the material.
If the commandant is held responsible for costs of repairs he should
also be allowed to approve local purchases.
While the "maintenance" appropriation would take away a little from
the individual bureaus, it would also relieve them of some irksome details.
It would make it easier for the yards and give the commandant a little
more chance to have work done more nearly to suit conditions. The yard
allotments would have to be made by the Department and priority of work
would have to be indicated. This may create some concern, but with a
proper force to make these allotments it could be done about as well as by
the several bureaus.
Authority to do work against "maintenance" would rest with the com-
mandant in accordance with general instructions received from the Navy
Department. Miscellaneous purchases would be approved by local author-
ities, or by the several bureaus who could be given allotments out of it as
needed. Anyway, a large fund would be provided that could be used by
the Navy Department for maintenance work as needed or required. The
responsibility for making intelligent use of such a fund would rest upon the
Navy Department.
Under such a general appropriation a navy yard would have, first, a
regular allotment under "maintenance” which would cover the bulk of its
work; then, for any special work under any other appropriation, other
allotments would be made, such as increase of navy, naval reserve, ordnance,
other government departments, and so forth.
It may be objected that this appropriation would be somewhat loosely
controlled. That is so, but on the other hand details are not and cannot
be controlled except by the responsible local authority. If the management
at the yard does not exercise proper control, no one at the Department can
rectify this. All that can be done is to limit the expenditure to certain
sums. The business of the Department is to create an effective incentive
to get proper action from the local forces. If this is done, the best possible
result will be secured. Waste in authorizing work may be laid to the


  p. 1493 (#411)                      #

1925)
1493
Discussion
Navy Department, but waste in doing work is controlled by the local yards.
The Department can secure economy by better scheduling of work, the
maintenance of uniform work loads, by concentrating similar work at cer-
tain yards and by arranging to operate yard facilities on a scale commen-
surate with the work load. This can be done either by a Bureau of
Maintenance or by some office established by the Navy Department. The
Navy Yard Division certainly has been the cause of a considerable improve-
ment. While we may not be getting full returns from money spent at
navy yards, it is believed that within the past two years we have been nearer
to the goal than ever before. I fear that some of Commander Fisher's
comments paint our accounting system blacker than necessary. I venture
the opinion that our accounting system is too complicated and is trying to
do many things not really necessary. However, it does work in an effi-
cient manner and gives cost information when wanted. While our over-
head expenses are higher than desirable, they have been brought down to
what may be considered fairly within reason. They are not excessive
except at yards where the volume of work is very small.
However, at present, fully as much money is wasted by inexpert action
and decisions as can be saved by any possible reduction in overhead
expenses.
Most of our serious troubles arise from defective administrative actions
or requirements which are not essentially dependent on the subdivision of
the Navy Department. It is possible to remove from our administrative
systems the unnecessary or unjustified expenses without altering the bureaus.
Some trouble may, however, be found in deciding of just what the un-
desirable procedure consists. It is very likely that some reason can be given
for nearly everything that exists. The pruning knife must be applied by
some expert authority that really knows what it is about and which has
definite authority to carry the job to its logical conclusion.
A temporary board is not likely to do this, but a permanent office, ade-
quately staffed and clothed with proper authority, can, after a suitable time,
accomplish a great deal. Our gunnery and engineering competition sys-
tems are examples of what can be done.
Real economy in the production and repair of our naval material will
not be secured till there is some definite, competent, expert authority pro-
vided to whom the duty of securing economy is assigned. Many of those
in authoritative positions do not give consideration to the question of cost
in making decisions. Such action may often be justified but it does not
make for economy. It has been found at navy yards that when a real
campaign for reduction in costs is started, results usually follow. Now the
same thing can be done at the Navy Department if there is a real will to
have it. We have practically no graft in the Navy because there is a
strong will to do away with it. We can secure better economy whenever
we stimulate a widespread and determined effort to secure it. Establish
some incentive to secure economy and it will appear. As long as there is
no real incentive for individuals to secure the greatest possible value out


  p. 1494 (#412)                      #

1494
[Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
of our naval money, bed rock economy will not result, no matter how the
bureau cognizance is divided.
The Navy Yard Division has helped to secure economy. It should be
able to obtain greater results by being allowed to devise better administra-
tive procedure and having this carried into effect. The budget system also
has helped to secure economy. The main line of attack is to cut out un-
necessary and unjustified work. Some of this is paper work, but reduction
in paper work will not work the wonders in economy that some of us may
think it will. Now, to get real results, some real pressure must be applied.
It cannot be done merely by pleasant invitation. This pressure must be
applied to bureaus as well as to navy yards.
Continuous, consistent effort, intelligently and effectively applied, will
gradually but surely effect such improvement. Such consistent effort
applied from within the Navy Department is likely to be more effective than
any particular rearrangement of the bureaus.
Proposed Administration Changes in Navy Department
(See page 357, March, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
COMMANDER C. S. McDowELL, U. S. Navy.—Commander Fisher pre-
sumably undertook his presentation of a proposed new organization of the
Navy Department with the desire to create discussion of the subject. Com-
mander Fisher's paper is worthy of serious study by every officer in the
naval service; it contains many suggestions of real merit, but its adoption
in toto would not be possible without seriously disrupting our administrative
offices. Commander Fisher states that in his proposed scheme "no dis-
astrous upheaval is required" but this does not seem possible. For instance,
he proposes a Bureau of Maintenance, which is to have charge of the run-
ning of navy yards and the repairs and alterations of vessels; the question
might immediately be raised as to who would be the head of this bureau.
Then, again, there is to be a Bureau of Design which is to have charge of
the design and procurement of new ships, and the same question will arise
as to who is to be the head of this bureau.
Suppose, for the sake of argument, we assume that the heads of both
of these bureaus are to be high ranking sea-going officers; then what will
be the function of the senior and most experienced naval constructors? If
the title and responsibilities of chief constructor are done away with what
incentive will the construction corps present as the final goal for the per-
severing and efficient officer? Probably, though, if this proposed organiza-
tion were adopted the chief of one of these two bureaus (Maintenance
and Design) would be a naval constructor, possibly the assignment might
vary so that it wouldn't be a regular custom to have a naval constructor
as chief, say, of the Bureau of Design. Let us assume, though, at some
particular time that the chief of the Bureau of Design is a naval con-
structor and that the chief of the Bureau of Maintenance is a line officer.


  p. 1495 (#413)                      #

1925]
1495
Discussion
The personal title of the chief of the Bureau of Design would presumably
be Chief Engineer of the Navy, as his duties would be commensurate with
the generally accepted definition of such a designation. He would pass final
judgment on all technical questions of design in mechanical and electrical
engineering as well as naval architecture and while holding his position of
chief of the Bureau of Design would cease to be, strictly speaking, a naval
constructor. The requirements for the head of this bureau are for an
executive general engineer possessed of broad experience and coordinating
ability of the highest order and there is no question but that a considerable
number of our naval constructors could ably fill the position. There would
be untold jealousies stirred up, though, in the actual functioning of the
office. Some outstanding turbine engineer or electrical engineer might well
resent engineering decisions being made in his particular field by a chief of
bureau unfamiliar with the art and science of the particular field.
It is noted that Commander Fisher proposes to put ship alterations under
the cognizance of the Bureau of Maintenance. It would seem that the
same developments and improvements that are utilized in new design would
form the guide for alterations to existing ships and it would not seem to be
wise to divorce the two. Assuming that the best naval engineering talent,
including naval architecture, would be gathered in the Bureau of Design,
the natural procedure would appear to be to have them also pass on ques-
tions of alterations. Most designs of different types of vessels are an evo-
lution based, to a considerable extent, on the service experience with previous
ships of the type. A considerable amount of the designers' experience must
be gained from the alterations which are required on a particular class in
order to make them serviceable.
If we look at the organization of some of the large commercial organiza-
tions of the country, in fields somewhat analogous to the Navy, it is seen
that they have a chief engineer and an engineering department to cover
each of the various phases of engineering work covered by the particular
company. The chief engineer renders decisions on all important technical
matters in his particular field. It is usual where the company covers a num-
ber of different fields of engineering to have a vice president in charge of
engineering and thus coordinate all the engineering departments. It would
seem feasible in a reorganization of the Navy Department to have an
assistant secretary in charge of all engineering and naval architecture with
heads of departments under him including the following: chief naval con-
structor, chief mechanical engineer, chief electrical engineer, chief civil
engineer, chief aeronautical engineer, chief of ordnance and chief research
engineer. This list of engineering departments may not be inclusive, but
serves to indicate the idea.
It will be noted that this scrambles a few more eggs even than Com-
mander Fisher proposed, but if there is to be a reorganization it would seem
to be the proper time to start with fundamentals and build from the ground
up, and the suggestion as made above is in keeping with the organization
being worked out at the navy yards. The demarcation between the func-


  p. 1496 (#414)                      #

1496
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
tions of the various engineering departments would be quite plain from their
mere designation and all questions of design, improvement or alteration in
their particular field would be under their control.
We might conceive that the main principle for a proper organization of
our Navy Department would cover the following:
a) The operation of the feet and the development of general naval
policies.
b) The technical details of design and improvement of different types
of vessels and equipment.
c) The maintenance of the feet in readiness for service including the
providing of supplies.
d) The providing and training of personnel for the Navy and the main-
tenance of their welfare.
e) The financing of the Navy's activities.
Commander Fisher draws attention to the very true fact that it is the
principle of organization that is involved and that if the correct principle
is adopted the details will take care of themselves and it is not my purpose
in this comment to go into details. It would seem that considerable diffi-
culty would be experienced in a proposed reorganization if most of the
bureaus retained their name, but were curtailed as to functions and pre-
rogatives. This might be called a case of putting bureau loyalty ahead of
navy loyalty, but it is one of the well recognized attributes of human nature
that any group or division will jealously guard what they have and endeavor
to get more. In a reorganization the present bureaus should be eliminated
entirely and in the new organization the term “bureau" should not occur.
Commander Fisher's clear exposition of our present antiquated and nearly
hopeless appropriation and accounting system is most timely. If the only
result of his efforts should be the creation of a single appropriation, with
the consequent simplification of accounting and carrying on of work, Com-
mander Fisher would have a right to feel that he had contributed to the
most progressive step taken by the Navy Department in this generation.
Diesel Engines for Capital Ships—A Military Necessity
(See page 1217, July, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
COMMANDER H. S. HOWARD (CC), U. S. N.—The paper by Captain
Proctor in the PROCEEDINGS of July is a very interesting discussion on the
possibility of applying Diesel engine propulsion to capital ships. As far as
the subject itself is concerned, I do not feel competent to pass upon the
technical questions of the engine which he proposes, but there are various
resulting questions of ship design to which no reference is made in the
article which are of the greatest interest to naval ship designers.
Captain Proctor stresses in his paper as the great advantage to be
gained by the use of Diesel engines on capital ships the increased radius of
action which would result thereby, but it is believed that the improvements


  p. 1497 (#415)                      #

1925]
1497
Discussion
in the protection of the ship which would result are almost, if not quite, as
important.
In the first place, there would be considerably less volume of exhaust
gases, and openings for air necessary for combustion could be considerably
reduced. Although possibly approximately the same amount of air would
be needed for combustion for the same powers as before, the velocity of
air in the intakes could be greatly incrcased, which would reduce the size.
With the openings for exhaust and air intakes reduced, the protective decks
could be made more complete and armored gratings reduced considerably
in size. On the top side the size of the funnel could be reduced, and
in later ships the number of funnels reduced from two to one. This
reduction and the reduction in ventilating openings would result in more
clear space for anti-aircraft guns and boats, and this in a space which
is now very congested. Similarly, improvements would result in protec-
tion against the possible introduction of poison gases into the vessel in
an engagement, as the air intakes instead of supplying air to firerooms could
be led direct to the engines themselves.
A second great improvement in the protection of the vessel would be in
the improvement of the protection of the vessel against underwater damage.
The number of large compartments below the water line would be reduced
by the elimination of the boiler rooms. In the figure given in the paper,
each engine is in a separate compartment, which in itself decreases the
liability to loss of propulsive power due to underwater damage.
All in all, the substitution of Diesel propulsion for steam power on a
capital ship would result not only in increasing the radius of action, as
brought out so strongly in the paper, but in improving greatly her powers
of resistance against attack either above or below water.


  p. 1498 (#416)                      #


THE Italian Scout CRUISER (2165 TONS) "TIGRE"


  p. 1499 (#417)                      #

PROFESSIONAL NOTES
1514
PREPARED BY
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER H. W. UNDERWOOD, U. S. Navy
FROM JUNE 7 TO JULY 7
GENERAL ARRANGEMENT
GREAT BRITAIN
Comment on New Type French Cruiser....
1499
The Position of the Shipbuilding Industry. ..................... 1500
FRANCE
French Navy Notes..........
......................
1502
GERMANY
The Development of German Merchant Shipbuilding.... 1504
ITALY
The New Italian Scout Cruisers..........
..... 1508
JAPAN
Japanese Naval Aims......
.......
1511
The Shadow of the Rising Sun.....
.............
UNITED STATES
Economics of the Next Naval Conference.
American Fleet Outranges British ........
.......... 1517
AVIATION
General Patrick on an Independent Air Force...
..........
.........
1518
The Performance of Future Airplanes......
1522
Airships for Military Purposes. ...
1527
MERCHANT MARINE
The Truth from Admiral Palmer....
A Plan for the Protection of American Shipbuilding............. 1532
President Coolidge Requests that Fleet Corporation Conduct Ship
Sales............
1534
Problems Confronting American Ships in Foreign Trade........ 1537
Defense of Merchant Ships in a Future War....
1541
ENGINEERING
Rival Methods of Ship Propulsion...
1543
MISCELLANEOUS
Limitations of Modern Sea War....
Will the Capital Ship Pass?..
............. 1548
The Situation in the Pacific........
....... 1551
CURRENT NAVAL AND PROFESSIONAL PAPERS...... ................ 1561
1516
.....
1531
1546
GREAT BRITAIN
The Future Type
Natal and Military Record, 3 June, 1925.-It is interesting to learn that
the French Ministry of Marine has under consideration the design of a new
type of croiseur de combat of 17,500 tons, to have a speed of 35 knots and
carry eight 12-inch guns in two quadruple turrets. Under the Washington
Agreement cruisers of this size and armament are inadmissible, but France
is at liberty to lay down one capital ship up to the limit of 35,000 tons


  p. 1500 (#418)                      #

1500
[Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
to replace the lost La France, and there is nothing to prevent her from
halving this tonnage allowance in two hulls if she chooses. Such a step
might exercise an influence upon international naval design of which it is
impossible to foresee the ultimate consequences. The suggested vessels
would be very similar to our original battle cruisers of the Invincible class,
save that they would be 10 knots faster. No capital ship in the world could
be matched against them for speed, and therefore they would have the
capacity of denying action to the only type of warship which could hope
successfully to engage them by gunfire.
On the other hand, vessels of such a character would entirely and hope-
lessly outclass the 10,000-ton ocean cruisers which the great naval powers
are now building with a rather remarkable unanimity of tactical ideas.
One has only to recall the Battle of Falklands in order to realize what the
difference between the two types would easily be. France has so often
proved the pioneer in naval design that it would be only in keeping with
history were she to set a new fashion in big ships. To say that such a re-
action in displacement would be a violation of first principles is sheer rub-
bish. Big ship is a relative term, and the smaller ship will still remain the
big ship if all the sea powers revert to smaller ships. Growth of size
has been the simple result of competition to possess the most formidable
weapon. The Washington Agreement has succeeded in establishing the
principle of equality in this respect, and in the long pause which is follow-
ing upon this stabilizing of rapid development considerations are coming
into play which were apt to be obscured while the rivalry was in progress.
How far these considerations may carry us before the time arrives for a
general resumption of capital ship construction none will yet venture to
say. But these projected French croiseurs de combat may be regarded as
silhouettes on the wall.
The Position of the Shipbuilding Industry in England
The Shipbuilder, June, 1925.—Shipbuilding and coal mining share the
unenviable position of being the most depressed British industries. Every
week sees more shipyards closed for lack of new orders, and the tale of
closed collieries is added to almost daily. The success of foreign competi-
tion in shipbuilding for what contracts there are in the market has led to
the formation of a joint committee, composed of shipbuilding employers
and representatives of the shipyard trade unions, to inquire into the causes
of the severe depression in shipbuilding. This committee has begun its
work in an atmosphere of goodwill. Any recommendations which such an
authoritative body may make will carry more weight than the views of any
individual, however well informed he may be; but it will not be sufficient for
the committee merely to indicate the causes of the depression or the reasons
for the success of foreign competition. These are well known and beyond
doubt. Unless the committee evolves some really constructive proposals for
reducing the cost of production, its labors will not be of much avail.
Trade depression in this country is due to two causes. The first-the
reduced consumption of commodities resulting from impoverishment due to
the war and to the decimation of populations—can be expected to right
itself in time. The second cause—the success of foreign competitors in
securing our markets—cannot be transitory while the conditions here and
abroad show such a wide disparity. Mr. Lawrence D. Holt, the Liverpool
shipowner, in a recent communication to the press following a visit to the
German shipyards, gave seven reasons why certain yards in Germany are
able to build ships vastly cheaper than British yards without any help from
the state. Mr. Holt's seven points put the case clearly and concisely.


  p. 1501 (#419)                      #

1925]
1501
Professional Notes
They are: (1) A greatly less rate of salary and wage; (2) the universality
of piece work; (3) longer hours of work; (4) no restriction on the use of
labor-saving machines; (5) no demarcation obstacles between trades; (6)
no redundant labor in the yards; and (7) keener work by management and
labor. To make Mr. Holt's list complete, the excessive burden of taxation
on British industry should be added. Mr. Walter Runciman, M.P., gave
figures in the House of Commons recently in connection with a Tees ship-
yard, which showed that the rate burden per ship built has increased
to £5,300. Neither Germany nor Holland, he stated, was foolish enough to
tax and burden its shipyards in the way we do.
What is to be done to alleviate the position? Sir Alfred Mond's scheme
of subsidies to industry should assist in preventing British shipbuilding
contracts going abroad, and might regain for this country a share of the
foreign contracts which are now being secured by Germany, Holland, and
France. It is attractive at first thought to consider giving employers the
benefit of the unemployment insurance payments which would be saved if
they were able to provide employment for men at present idle. It would
help to prevent the youth of the nation developing slothful habits
and growing up to manhood with no trade or occupation. It would
ensure that some work would be done for the huge amounts paid out weekly,
and for which at present the state receives no return. But would it be a
healthy state of affairs for an international industry like shipbuilding to be
kept alive by subsidies ?
It has been suggested that foreign-built ships constructed for British
owners should be taxed, but how would this help the industry? It would not
assist us to regain the foreign market, and it would not prevent British
owners building ships abroad if sufficient inducement were offered. The
result would be to swell the volume of shipping under foreign flags at the
expense of the British.
The fallacious idea held by many at the termination of the war that,
in order to make the country fit for heroes to live in, shorter hours of
work and higher pay were necessary, might have been all right as a matter
of sentiment and an ideal to be aimed at, but the endeavor to put it into
effect has been disastrous for the nation. It is ludicrous to imagine that
less work, and not more, is required after four-and-a-half years of destruc-
tion and of production for destruction. In the shipbuilding industry the
gulf between Continental and British costs will have to be bridged if the
industry in this country is to survive as anything more than a shadow of
its former self. The cost of production in Great Britain and Ireland will
have to be reduced, but the remedy cannot be found in the shipbuilding
industry alone. Shipbuilding in itself is a constructional industry; and its
raw materials are the finished products of other staple industries. The short
hours and high wages of the coal miners, railway workers, dockers and
other transport workers, have added enormously to the cost of ships. The
conditions of work in the so-called sheltered trades are inequitable as com-
pared with those in the competitive trades, and are not only maintaining
the cost of living at a high standard, but are making it impossible for the
competitive trades to continue to pay the rates of wages ruling at present.
The issue is a broad and national one, and until the trade unions recognize
that this country is dependent on its export trade for existence, that trade
goes to the country which sells at the lowest prices, and that a country de-
pendent on its export trade must produce goods of at least equal value
at equal prices to those of its competitors, there seems little hope of a per-
manent trade revival. How can this country hope to compete successfully
in the international markets when the output of our coal mines is 20 per cent
less per man than it was in 1913, when our railways employed 100,000 more


  p. 1502 (#420)                      #

1502
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
men than in pre-war days and handle about 25,000,000 tons less traffic in the
year, and when it takes three dockers to do the work two men did before
the war?
The position will have to be faced. It is not too much to say, as Sir
Alfred Yarrow is reported to have stated recently that trade-union re-
strictions are paralyzing industry. If, therefore, the joint committee of
employers and trade unions in the shipbuilding industry can, by the example
of its own industry, indicate to the miners, the railwaymen and the dockers
in which direction the true interests of the workers lie, it will have justified
its existence.
FRANCE
French Navy Notes
The Naval and Military Record, 3 June, 1925.—The Dumesnil squadron,
comprising five 24,000-ton battleships, two cruisers, and two dozen torpedo
craft, will next week leave Toulon for a two months' cruise in the Mediter-
ranean, Atlantic, and Channel, in the course of which coast defense and
attack tactics under new conditions will be engaged in (camouflage, arti-
ficial clouds, and comprehensive utilization of aerial factors). This cruise
is to serve the purposes of naval propaganda, an art yet in its infancy in
France, compared with the way this important side of the sea power question
is managed in England. In Brittany yards the three 8,000-ton cruisers are
shipping their turrets of new design, that are their point of fighting vantage
over the British Effinghams. The 10,000-ton Tourville and Duquesne are
being built at a rapid rate.
The small cruisers Strasbourg and Metz, under Rear Admiral Hallier,
have paid an agreeable visit to Malta, which was an Anglo-French base
during the war (and where the torpedoed battleship Jean Bart was promptly
repaired), previous to their proceeding to Bizerta, that was for so many
years a Franco-British point d'appui against a common enemy. Those times
have come anew as the result of unexpected international happenings that
call for a closer Franco-British entente and mutual assistance against com-
mon perils; and the projected exchange of Anglo-French naval courtesies
in the Mediterranean is a matter of congratulation. Under new interna-
tional conditions, in the light of colonial developments, France and England
stand or fall together, as proclaimed by clear sighted statesmen in our two
countries. This Franco-British interdependence is especially in evidence in
the Mediterranean. It is the same Bocho-Bolshevist influence that is
undermining both British and French influence and safety, with unpre-
cedented and hypocritical means of underhand action.
The trouble the French are facing in Morocco is the very same that is
confronting British rule in Egypt and in India, and the battle may be
considered as being engaged in on the whole Moslem front from Tangiers
to Singapore. On one side, France and Britain, and to a smaller extent
Italy; on the other, the whole force of the barbarous Soviets, backing
and pushing forward the deluded or fanatical Arabs and Mussulmans gen-
erally. Partial disaster (and France is paying for Spanish disasters) will
mean ultimately and surely disaster for the whole line, viz., the collapse
of European colonial empires.
The Riffan problem is a naval problem. Abd el Krim, reduced to his sole
forces and resources, cannot resist long the superior genius, troops, and
armament of Marshall Lyautey, despite the exceptional fighting qualities of
his Moorish partisans. Prospects will be different if that ambitious and
clever African leader continues to receive the moral help that treacherous
Frenchmen are showering upon him, together with financial subsidies from
Russia and reinforcements in men and in material from Bocheland and


  p. 1503 (#421)                      #

1925]
1503
Professional Notes
Bolshevia. Hostilities on the African front could not go on long without
weakening France at a critical moment when Bocheland, longing for more
land in the sun, and set on her feet again by the stupidity of the Allies,
is displaying a voracious appetite for both Poland and Austria.
To stop at all cost the importation of arms into (nominally) Spanish
Morocco has, therefore, indirectly, become a life-and-death question for
France. An agreement has been reached with Spain that would, of course,
welcome French help with a view to regaining the peaceful possession of
her lawful share of North Africa. A close blockade is to be established
of the Riff coast. Motor gunboats have left Brittany for Morocco and
Oran. The thirty-odd French avisos as Canonnières, rapides (20 knots) of
the Meuse and Arras classes of 700 to 850 tons, that carry either four 4-inch
or two 5.6-inch weapons, besides smaller quickfirers, are suited for block-
ading duties, especially acting in cooperation with patrolling farseeing
aerial scouts and handy motor vedettes.
The victory of France over an enemy that defeated the whole might
of Spain will be due to naval and aerial power mostly, this notwithstanding
the tried valor of French and colonial troops. But for the number (over
two hundred), efficiency, and daring of French aviators, the cost in blood
would have been enormous of dislodging the cute and elusive Riffens from
the steep and craggy mountains in which they had taken a footing and so
cleverly fortified themselves on up-to-date lines. Abd el Krim infantry is
being used as an experimental target to the best aviation in the world, and
chemical warfare will further contribute to shorten the duration of hos-
tilities and to reduce bloodshed. Afghan warfare, which cost England so
much, is the nearest approach to Riff warfare.
Superior speed, under new conditions of warfare, is the key to victory,
since to a great extent all encounters in the last war proved to be contests
of speed, and it is easy to imagine that events would have fared otherwise
had the German fleet possessed an all-round advantage in speed. Speed is
a question not so much of size and finances as of superior technical, scienti-
fic efficiency. Every technical advance realized by a power is tantamount
to an increase in the fighting strength of that power. Dupuy de Lome's
creation of the first steam battleship conferred upon France a crushing
superiority over sailing battle fleets, as showed the Franco-British Crimean
Expedition. Water tube boilers and turbines gave alternately to France
and to England similar advantages to a smaller degree, and it is acknowl-
edged that, quite up to recent years, British and also German systems of
ship propulsion were superior to the French. A better utilization of motor
space, weight, and nominal power has been noted in British battleships,
cruisers, and destroyers than in French units of similar classes.
To catch up all rivals, and even to excel them in that momentous re-
spect, is the policy of the Paris Admiralty. Boiler, geared turbines, and
Diesel studies and experiments are proceeding apace and simultaneously. The
Indret boiler factory (between Nantes and St. Nazaire) has, by degrees, ar-
rived at an incredible ultilization standard of boiler space, passing from
500 square meters of heated surface in the Waldeck-Rousseau type of
boiler (1906) to 980 square meters in the 1920 type, 1,125 in the 1922, and
over 1,300 in the latest types of marine boilers. Experiements on boilers
intended for the 8,000-ton cruisers (Duguay-Trouins) and for the 2,500-ton
contretor pilleurs, have shown their evaporating power to be 25 to 30 per
cent greater than had been expected. The Duguay-Trouins, at first designed
for 100,000 h.p. (eight boilers at 12,500 h.p. each), will develop over 120,000
h.p. with ease, and their speed (34 knots on paper) ought to exceed 36
knots. Similarly, destroyers originally designed for 50,000 h.p. (five
boilers) will reach 60,000 h.p. Relatively to size, the new French ships


  p. 1504 (#422)                      #

1504
[Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
will be the most powerful in existence, and the “blue ribbon" of the ocean
(naval) ought to come back to the Tri-color.
In truth, in the past also France excelled by the nominal power of her
ships, but not so much by her speed. For a given paper speed French
ships required greater boiler power. Thus, regarding 10,000-ton croiseurs
cuirassés of twenty-five years ago, 22,000 h.p. caused the British Kent
(Bellevilles) to spurt at 24 knots (and she did so at the Falklands), the
Italian Pisas to exceed 23 knots, and the German Roons to splash on at 21.5
knots, whereas the French Gloires and Montcalms felt panting and uneasy
when hurled forward at over 18 knots in a seaway. It is now acknowledged
that the late chief constructor, Mons. Bertin (though great were his
merits in other respects) designed for over a decade cruisers pleasing to look
at, but suffering from internal complaints unfitting them for exposure in
rough weather at high speed.
The whole of the units of the new program even submarines, have been
built on new lines, that embody experimental data collected since the war,
and are calculated to combine fast running with nautical qualities, which
shows that in their bid for speed supremacy French ingenicurs intend
to neglect no asset.
GERMANY
The Development of German Merchant Shipbuilding
The Shipbuilder, June, 1925.—The Board of Statistics of the German
Government has just published the official figures concerning merchant
shipbuilding in Germany during 1924, which have been compiled for the
Board by the Germanischer Lloyd. These statistics naturally differ some-
what from those issued by Lloyd's Register of Shipping, as they are pre-
pared on a different basis. They are specially interesting because a distinc-
tion is made between the activities on German and on foreign account,
and because they also include particulars of the river craft constructed.
Tables I and II give particulars of the ships, both for sea-going and
river purposes, under construction during the years 1923 to 1924 inclusive.
On the whole, however, the statistics concerning vessels under con-
struction do not give a very clear idea of the development of German
TABLE I
SEA-GOING SHIPS UNDER CONSTRUCTION IN GERMAN YARDS
For German
Account
For Foreign
Account
Total
Year
No.
Gross
Tons
No.
Gross
Tons
No.
Gross
Tons
205
1,216
1,018
650
637
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
597
1,011
913
619
614
570
499
480
797
1,086
407
1,296,800
1,184,400
967,000
1,075,300
1,069,000
1,080,300
763, 100
1,563,800
1,667, 027
1,171,576
597, 404
405, 700
49,100
16,800
27,900
19,600
16,800
13,600
40,600
141,600
59,372
86,450
119, 187
231,600
523
508
856
1,148
435
316
270
1,345,900
1,201,200
994,900
1,094,900
1,085,800
1,093,900
803, 700
1,705, 400
1,726,399
1,258,026
716,591
637,300
1922
278
1923
1924
189


  p. 1505 (#423)                      #

1925)
1505
Professional Notes
shipbuilding during the past twelve years, because of the abnormal con-
ditions ruling during and since the war. During the war years work was
delayed on nearly all mercantile vessels, while during 1924 the completion
of tonnage in hand was hastened by the fact that the shipbuilding yards
had not sufficient contracts to keep them fully employed. A more reliable
guide is furnished by Tables III and IV, which show the new tonnage
completed during the years 1912 to 1924 inclusive.
TABLE II.
RIVER CRAFT UNDER CONSTRUCTION IN GERMAN YARDS
For German
Account
For Foreign
Account
Total
Year
Gross
Tons
Gross
Tons
Gross
Tons
No.
No.
135
168
120
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
17,810
17,320
9,320
12,360
12,370
7,830
8,720
8,910
14,416
221, 649
130,456
Iwonnen
4,500
3,100
770
3,130
670
350
250
22,310
20,420
10,090
15,490
13,040
8,180
8,970
8,910
14,688
237,669
141, 529
272
16,020
11,073
OIX
748
805
TABLE III.
SEA-GOING SHIPS COMPLETED IN GERMAN YARDS.
For German
Account
For Foreign
Account
Total
Year
Gross
No.
Gross
Tons
Gross
Tons
Tons
No.
No.
656
550
310
826
631
322
265
277
188
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
191
423,900
433,500
243,000
183,300
59,900
35,600
150.800
241,200
404,733
598,320
380, 774
197,500
185
180
151
284
326
225
147
93
34,800
12,000
4,100
7,800
2,100
1,200
1.000
84,700
40,667
26,536
37,024
52,300
152
458,700
445,500
247, 100
191, 100
62,000
36,800
151,800
325,900
445,400
624,856
417,798
249,800
324
376
234
162


  p. 1506 (#424)                      #

1506
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
TABLE IV.
RIVER CRAFT COMPLETED IN GERMAN YARDS

For German
Account
For Foreign
Account
Total
Year
Gross
No.
Gross
Tons
Gross
Tons
Tons
No.
19
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
8,000
11,580
3,240
4,400
2,760
710
2,910
1,810
5,184
111, 762
92,284
1,160
2,540
320
440
340
340
250
9,160
14,120
3,560
4,840
3,100
1,050
3,160
1,810
5,456
117,199
99,307
15
6
423
272
5,437
7,023
451
516
553
Tables I to IV indicate the great reduction in activity during the years
1923 and 1924, both in connection with ships under construction and ships
completed. Before the war, the capacity of the German yards for the
building of mercantile shipping was estimated at 500,000 tons gross per
annum. Since that time most of these establishments have been extended,
and the yards formerly engaged in warship construction have also turned
their attention to merchant tonnage. In this way, the capacity of the Ger-
man yards has been increased to about 700,000 to 800,000 tons annually, ex-
cluding the yards engaged on the production of river craft. The full
shipbuilding capacity of this country has thus not been utilized up to the
present, and during 1925 the actual output amounted to only about one-
third of the maximum possible. Since the completion of the reconstruction
program of the German shipping companies, no shipbuilding contracts of
any magnitude have been entered into.
Tonnage Built on FOREIGN ACCOUNT
The activities of the German yards on foreign account have been
much greater since than before the war. This is due to the fact that ship-
builders in this country have had to search diligently for work, whereas
before the war they were generally well employed on vessels for home
owners. The sea-going tonnage completed for foreign owners in the
years 1913-24 inclusive is given as a percentage of the total tonnage built
as follows:
Year Per cent
Year Per cent
1913 7.6
1919 0.65
1914
1920
26.0
1915 1.7
1921
9.1
4.1
1922
1917
1923
1918
3.2
1924 20.9
2.6
1916
4.3
3.4
8.9


  p. 1507 (#425)                      #

1925]
1507
Professional Notes
The large tonnage completed in 1920 for foreign owners was due to
deliveries in accordance with the Versailles Treaty. Since 1923, however,
there has again been increased activity in German shipbuilding yards for
foreign account, and this is still more clearly shown in the relationship
between ships under construction for foreign owners and the total tonnage
being built. The following is the percentage of foreign-owned vessels
under construction in the years 1921, 1922, 1923 and 1924:
Year Per cent
Year Per cent
1921 3.4
1923 16.7
1922 6.9
1924 36.4
Thus, in the year 1924, the enormous slump in the German shipbuilding
industry was due solely to the decrease in contracts for German owners.
THE SPEED OF CONSTRUCTION
It is also interesting to investigate the speed of construction, that is,
the relationship between the tonnage completed in each year and the
tonnage on the stocks at the beginning of that year. Before the war it
was a general rule that about 33 per cent of the ships under construction
were completed in the same year. This percentage, indeed, increased in
1914 to 40, and in the following years the percentages were as under:
Year Per cent
Year Per cent
1915
1920 15
1916
1921 25
1917
1922
50
1918
1923
1919 20
1924 45
The foregoing figures show the slowing up in the rate of construction
due to the war, and they also prove that the capacity of the German yards
has been greatly increased since the war. The lower percentage for 1924
was caused by the reduction in the number of men employed.
North SEA vs. Baltic Yards
The part played by the yards in the North Sea and Baltic areas re-
spectively has fluctuated considerably. In 1913 about 50 per cent of the
completed tonnage came from each of these two centers. In 1914 the North
Sea area completed 66 per cent of the total tonnage produced. During
the war the production in the two centers was nearly equal, and this was
also the case in 1924, but in 1923 the North Sea area produced about 60
per cent of the total tonnage built in Germany.
Motorship CONSTRUCTION
The development to motorship construction in Germany is shown by the
following statistics, which give the percentage of tonnage equipped with
internal-combustion engines :
Year Per cent
Year Per cent
1913 4
1922 5
1920
1923
9
1921
32
The size of the motorships built has increased rapidly during the last
few years. In 1913 the average gross tonnage of motor vessels was 3,567,
while in 1923 it had risen to 5,137. On the other hand, the average size of
steamships has decreased considerably.
1924


  p. 1508 (#426)                      #

1508
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ITALY
New Italian Scout Cruisers
The Engineer, 29 May, 1925.—Although not very dissimilar in general
pattern from the flotilla leaders of the British Navy, that designation is not
altogether applicable to the Italian vessels, which appear to have been
built for functions other than the leadership of destroyer flotillas. In
considering their design it is essential to pay heed to local strategic condi-
tions. Though the staunchness of their construction is beyond criticism,
it is clear that they were built mainly with a view to operations in waters
more sheltered than those of the North Sea or the English Channel. Their
true field of action is the Mediterranean, and it is there that their for-
midable powers of offense could be employed to the greatest advantage.
Naval opinion in France, and to some extent in Italy, also, inclines to
the belief that heavy armored ships will be of negligible value in any future
struggle for the mastery of the Mediterranean. This belief is reflected in
the current shipbuilding policies of the two powers, neither of which proposes
to lay down new capital ships. Since the war they have largely devoted
their attention to the building of small, high-speed ships of the destroyer
type, and submarines. More recently, each has laid down several cruisers
of the 10,000 class, though the utility of such ships is still a matter of
dispute among their experts. In this country, seaworthiness is held to be
no less important than speed in the design of a destroyer, and in order
to achieve it there is a readiness to make some sacrifice of armament.
The result is that the average British destroyer, while it may compare un-
favorably in respect of armament with a French or an Italian boat of
approximate tonnage, is probably the better sea boat. For instance, the
original plan of the French Jaguar class, of 2,359 tons, provided for an
armament of six 5.1-in. guns, two 3-in. A.A. guns, and six 21.7-in. torpedo
tubes; while our 1,800-ton leaders of the Admiralty class carry five 4.7-in.,
one 3-in. A.A., and six 2-in. tubes. One of the 5.1-in. guns was subsequently
deleted from the French vessel, but even after the reduction in weight, she
is expected to prove rather lively in a seaway. The Italian ships of the
Leone group, though only 365 tons heavier than our Admiralty boats, mount
eight 4.7-in. guns, two 3-in, A.A., and six tubes. In proportion to displace-
ment, they are the most heavily armed ships now afloat. Since it is patent
that vessels with this formidable battery are not intended to serve primarily
as torpedo craft, they must be regarded as small scouting cruisers, in
which the torpedo is subordinate to the gun.
Building programs now in hands indicate that the naval forces to be as-
sembled in the Mediterranean a few years hence will include a large quota
of such ships, possessing the velocity of destroyers, reasonable sea-keeping
properties, and a powerful gun armament. Much talk is heard in continental
naval circles of the decisive results to be expected from tactical cooperation
by swift cruisers, light scouts of the type referred to, submarines and air-
craft. It is argued that a composite force of this character could absolutely
close the Mediterranean against an orthodox battle-fleet of greater ag-
gregate strength.
The design of the Leone class was prepared in 1916-17, probably as a
retort to the heavy destroyers then being built for the Austro-Hungarian
Navy, but the exigencies of war postponed the actual laying down of the
ships to 1921, by which date two of the five units originally projected
had been cancelled. The Leone, with her sister vessels Tigre and Pantera,
were built, engined, armed and equipped by the famous Ansaldo firm at
Sestri Potente, the building period averaging rather more than three years.


  p. 1509 (#427)                      #

1925]
1509
Professional Notes
The excellent workmanship put into structure and machinery is at once
apparent to the critical eye. Despite the great importance attached to speed,
the scantling is moderately heavy and the hull is well subdivided. The
length between perpendiculars is 359.6 ft., the extreme breadth 33.8 ft.,
the draught 11.5 ft., and the displacement 2,165 tons. The freeboard at all
points is considerably higher than that of our largest flotilla leaders.
The general lines of the hull appear to be modeled on those of the
Mirabello class of destroyers, which are said to be capital sea boats. There
are no anti-rolling tanks, nor has the German device of employing the
oil bunkers for that purpose been resorted to; yet the ships, though carrying
so heavy a deck load, are remarkably steady. The long cruise of several
thousand miles in which they are at present engaged has afforded fre-
quent opportunities of testing them under varying conditions of weather,
and their officers profess complete satisfaction with the behavior of all three
ships. Absence of vibration even at high speed, and the narrow are through

WE
Twin Gun MOUNTING AND SHIELDS
which they roll and pitch, make them - eady gun platforms, a quality of
high importance having regard to their ctical functions.
The propelling machinery comprises oi two high-pressure and two low-
pressure turbiries of Parsons type, the former running at 3,400 and the
latter at 1,800 revolutions per minute, transmitting power to the twin
shafts through gearing which reduces the speed of rotation to 420 revolu-
tions. On her full-power trials, the Leone developed more than 50,000
shaft horsepower, maintaining an average speed of 34.5 knots. Steam is
taken from four Yarrow oil-burning boilers. Engine and boiler spaces are
bulkheaded in accordance with the latest practice, and the principle of
duplication has been followed so far as space and weight permit. Here
and there among the auxiliary machinery one notices well-known British
types, but the whole of the material itself is of Italian manufacture.
Excepting the two 3-in. A.A. guns, which are placed one each side at
the break of the forecastle, the entire armament is disposed along the
center line. The eight 4.7-in. 45-cal. guns are on twin mountings. The
first pair, being stationed well away from the eyes of the ship, can be


  p. 1510 (#428)                      #

1510
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
fought even when she is running into head seas and taking water over the
bows, the sighting and laying of the guns under such conditions being
facilitated by an armored shield for each of the two gun layers. These
shields are placed respectively at the right and left hand of the mounting
leaving a clear space between for the loading parties, who, however, are
quite unprotected. The general arrangement is eminently practical, and
much superior to the conventional type of destroyer gun mounting. While
the two guns may be worked independently as regards elevation-maximum
angle, 30°—they are, in fact operated and fired as a unit, the practice
being to discharge salvos of four guns at a time. The normal rate of fire
for each gun is four rounds per minute, or eight for each twin mounting.
This rate could easily be accelerated for brief periods if the supply of
ammunition were well maintained, but as there are only two hoists for the
four pairs of guns, it would probably be difficult to keep up a continuous
rapid fire. The guns, it should be added, are non-automatic, and are worked
entirely by hand. They are of the Armstrong model, with a total length
of 18.38 ft., the rifled bore extending for 174.6 in. The weight of the gun
is 4.035 tons. Propelled by a powder charge of 9.6 lbs., the high-explosive
shell, weighing 48.74 lbs, attains an initial velocity of 2,460 foot-seconds.
Shrapnel shell of 55.33 lbs. are also used. The powder charge is enclosed
in a brass case. At the time of our inspection, the guns had not been
equipped for director control, but they are eventually to be fitted with
"follow the pointer" gear, operated from the foretop. Each ship carries
two 12-ft. base Zeiss range finders. With a well trained crew, it is stated,
there is little or no mutual interference by the loading numbers, in spite
of the limited space between the two guns, which are clearly shown in the
illustration. The position of the second and third mountings is such as
necessarily to restrict their field of fire before and aba ft the beam, but that
is a defect common to all small ships with an armament disposed along the
keel line.
The two anti-aircraft pieces, of 3-in. caliber discharge a high-explosive
shell of 14 lbs. and shrapnel of 15 lbs. Italian naval officers are inclined
to question the utility of these guns for the purpose in view, and would
prefer a more numerous armament of i-pdr. or 2-pdr. pompoms for use
against aircraft. The six torpedo tubes, mounted on triple carriages,
discharge the 18-in. Whitehead torpedo, Italy having for some reason de-
· layed the adoption of the larger torpedoes which are now used by other
navies. In the Leone and her sisters the tubes have an unusually long
"spoon,” the object apparently being to carry the torpedo well clear of
the ship before it is released, and also to increase the arc of fire before and
abaft the beam. The offensive properties of the class are further augmented
by a supply of sixty blockade mines per ship, with portable laying gear.
Taken for all in all, these ships are exceptionally powerful for their
size, and appear to represent an admirable combination of the tactical
qualities dictated by Italian requirements. The naval constructors of that
country are second to none in skill. They have produced a succession of in-
genious designs, some of which have visibly influenced man-of-war develop-
ment elsewhere. They might claim to have invented the battle cruiser,
as typified by the Italia and the Lepanto, which were laid down nearly
fifty years ago. In modern times they have repeatedly shown it to be
possible to endow vessels of quite moderate tonnage with a large meas-
ure of fighting power without detriment to seaworthiness. It is because
the units of the Leone class are characteristic specimens of Italian con-
struction that we have dealt with them at some length. In the subjoined
table their leading features are compared with those of recent British and
French flotilla leaders:


  p. 1511 (#429)                      #

1925]
1511
Professional Notes
Italian
Leone
class
1923
359.6
320
3134
33.8
... 1,800
... 40,000
British
Admiralty
class
Year of launch ......
1918
Length (p:p.), feet .............
Breadth, feet .......
Draught, feet ........
1294
Displacement, tons ...
Shaít horsepower ................
Designed speed, knots ......
36.5
Oil fuel capacity, maximum, tons. ... 504
Armament
5-4.7-in.
1-3-in.
A.A.
7—2 pr.
6--21-in.
tubes
Weight of broadside fire, Ib. (main
guns only) .........
... 225
French
Jaguar
class
1923
39234
36
1434
2,359
50,000
35.5
540
5–5.1-in.
2—2.9-in.
A.A.
6 21.7-in
tubes
11.5
2,165
50,000
35
400
8
4.7-in.
2—3-in
A.A.
1-18-in.
tubes
300
390
JAPAN
Japanese Naval Aims
Engineering, 19 June, 1925.-Although there have been frequent refer-
ences to Japanese naval strength, both in the British and American press,
it is rather curious that no naval writer has, as yet, attempted to analyze
the composition of the Japanese fleet, in order to get some idea of the
strategical purposes for which it is probably intended. At first sight the
problem would appear insoluable without reference to secret archives; but,
in point of fact, it is by no means very difficult, for the Japanese Navy can
only be required for ensuring the flow of vital commodities to the islands in
case of war, or for overseas operations. It will be interesting to take each
of these points in turn, and examine them as closely as statistics and known
facts allow.
Any country which is dependent upon overseas supplies must first ensure
itself an adequate food supply and, after that, secure sufficient quantities
of raw materials for its war industries and munition factories. What are
the naval commitments which attach themselves to each other of these
desiderata?
The principal articles of the Japanese national diet are rice, beans, wheat,
fish, meat, sugar, and salt; and of these rice is the most important. Ex-
cept in the case of fish, the country imports a proportion of its total con-
sumption of all these items; but the sources of supply are fairly concen-
trated. All the rice, meat, and salt required for keeping the population in
health can be obtained from China, Korea, and Formosa. The sugar is,
it is true, largely obtained from the Dutch East Indies, but, in an emergency,
sugar imports could certainly be cut down, and enough sweetening matter
obtained from the very large supplies of home-produced honey. The wheat
imports undoubtedly contain the germ of a serious strategical problem. At
the present moment about half come from the American continent and half
from China ; but the import total grows year by year, and there is a
tendency to depend more and more upon the American market.
British import statistics during the war have proved that the country can
supply large armies on decreased imports of iron, coal, and ores, but that
a large increase in imported oils and chemicals is inevitable. (See Fayle,
History of Sea-Borne Trade, vol. iii, Appendix CIX, page 478.) The exact


  p. 1512 (#430)                      #

1512
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
quantities of each which is essential depend upon a country's military com-
mitments. A glance at the Japanese trade returns shows that the country
would be able to secure itself all the iron, coal, and copper it needed
from Chinese sources of supply; but that petroleum and rubber can only
be obtained from America and the Dutch East Indies. A great effort has,
however, been made to use the Dutch supplies as much as possible, for only
about a quarter of the total imports of oil fuel come from the American
Continent. Chemicals are, undoubtedly, obtained largely from Europe ; but,
as a total supply of 2,500,000 tons would probably suffice for a three-years
war, large reserves can always be obtained in peace. For rubber and
cotton the country is mainly dependent upon the Dutch East Indies and
British India, although a certain percentage of cotton comes from America.
These facts leave no doubt as to the exact nature of the Japanese naval
problem. The area enclosed by Korea, the Japanese islands, the Liu Kiu
group and Formosa, on the east and north, and by the Chinese mainland
on the west, must be secured against any adversary. From inside that
area Japan can supply herself with the bulk of what she requires in war.
If it is lost—that is, if Japan's communications with China are cut by an
adversary which establishes a naval force in the China seas-her capacity
for resistance will cease automatically. That, however, is only part of the
problem. The country's dependence upon the Dutch East Indies would in-
crease enormously in war; and as her home production would probably fall
off as men were taken from agriculture and industries, it would be essential
that she should keep open one overseas line of supplies. If she were at
war with a European Power, great efforts would doubtless be made to make
American route secure; and if with the United States, to keep comunications
open with British India and Europe.
An analysis of the present state of the Japanese Navy shows, without
doubt, that those responsible for the country's naval policy have concen-
trated all their thought upon the purely defensive aspects of the naval
problem. The Japanese Navy is admirably designed to keep opponents out
of the vital area between Japan and the Chinese mainland; but it is far
less well equipped to support overseas operations, or even to protect long
lines of communication. The latest units of the cruiser fleet-that is, the
sixteen ships of the Yubari, Kinu and Tatsuta class—are all of the fleet-
cruiser type ; thirteen of them are of the 5,000-ton class, the remaining
three are smaller. The implication is obvious: all the newest cruisers are
to be used for fleet-scouting duties inside the Japanese narrow seas. The
remaining cruisers are, it is true, much heavier, and might certainly be
used for escort or patrol work along an ocean route; but there are only
eleven of them, and of these, six are twenty-five years old.
The existing building program shows the same purely defensive tenden-
cies. The three vessels of the Kinu type are 5,000-ton fleet cruisers; the
remaining six (four Furutakas and two Myokos) are of heavier tonnage;
but when put into service they will only replace the old cruisers which were
completed in 1899. No system of calculation can give the Japanese more
than ten oceanic cruisers, capable of defending or disturbing distant com-
munications, when their present program is completed. Seeing how im-
portant it may be to keep open at least one of the transoceanic routes, one
has to admit that they propose to do it with a very minimum of force. A
quantitative test of the Japanese petroleum requirements in war accentuates
her dependence upon overseas sources of supply, and, indeed, her difficulty in
obtaining what she would need if she were ever engaged with a powerful
naval adversary. Her total yearly imports are, at present about 1,450,000
tons (petroleum and benzine): she would require about two and a half


  p. 1513 (#431)                      #

1925)
1513
Professional Notes
times as much if a comparison between the British figures for 1913 and 1918
is any guide at all. This means either that the country must accumulate a
reserve of some seven million gallons for a three years war, or else that
some three and a half million additional gallons must be brought into the
country over long oceanic communications during every year she is at war.
This, it must be admitted, is a tremendous commitment, and one the Japa-
nese naval staff could hardly undertake with the purely defensive force at
present at its disposal.
The composition of the Japanese destroyer and submarine fleets leads
irresistibly to the same conclusion. There are only twenty-nine first-class
boats, that is, destroyers of more than 1,000 tons in service, and when their
new units are completed they will hardly have fifty in all. These are small
figures, and it should be remembered that no destroyer of any tonnage is
really fitted for oceanic work.
The Japanese submarine fleet can be dealt with even more briefly.
Their submarines are all adapted for work in the China seas, and they only
possess two boats which could operate as far south as the Dutch East Indies.
The Japanese have, indeed, two peculiar reasons for concentrating upon
that smaller, coastal, type of submarine which French naval experts call
a sous-marin de blocus. First, Japanese foreign trade is contentrated at
Yokohama and Kobe, so that any dislocation of these two places would
automatically upset the distribution of supplies over the whole country;
secondly, the carrying capacity of Japanese railways is low, with the con-
sequence that the coasting trade is a very important factor in the general
machinery of distribution. Strong coastal patrols and powerful mobile de-
ſense at the great commercial harbors are the naval corollaries to this
dependence upon two centers of distribution, Yokohama and Kobe, and the
economic importance of the coastal routes. The Japanese submarine fleet
seems to have been specially designed for these purposes; but, it has to be
admitted that it is numerically weak. A very large number of submarines
would be required for operations in the sea of Japan, and the surplus
available for work round the Japanese coasts would not be great. All
facts therefore combine to prove that the Japanese Navy is designed to de-
fend the vital economic interests of the country, and is not adapted to
disturbing an adversary's communications. It may even be asked, how, in
its present composition, it could successfully defend the European route
from Singapore northwards, against a determined attempt to cut it. The
goods which the Japanese would need most would probably be food stuffs
from British India, and oil and rubber from the East Indies. There would
be ample precedent for treating all as contraband, in which case the neutral
flag would not cover them. The ten or eleven heavy cruisers available for
protecting the traffic would hardly suffice to put it under escort; and if an
enemy succeeded in operating from Manila against the route, no other
measure would suffice to ensure the safe arrival of the essential cargoes.
On these facts it seems safe to sum up the present Japanese program
by saying that it hardly provides adequate defense for the country's growing
dependence upon overseas supplies. If, during the next few years, the
Japanese Government make provision for more cruisers and submarines
of the oceanic type, it will certainly be unjust to accuse them, on that ac-
count, of departing from the cautious defensive policy which at present
animates their whole system of naval defense. Any Japanese government
could undoubtedly make out an unanswerable case for having at least twenty
heavy cruisers, capable of oceanic work along distant communications, and
a large force of submarine cruisers. At present they are contented with a
far lower figure, and show no desire to increase it.


  p. 1514 (#432)                      #

1514
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The Shadow of the Rising Sun
By Sir Herbert Russell, Naval and Military Record, 17 June, 1925.-
Within the past few weeks several events of very considerable naval
significance have been recorded. The Japanese have completed their first
submarine cruiser, a craft of 1,700 tons, capable of crossing the Pacific and
back upon her own fuel endurance. The official report upon the recent
United States naval maneuvers has been published, and the result of this is
an urgent demand for the fortifying of Honolulu, and the effective garrison-
ing of the Hawaiian Islands. The Australian cruiser Brisbane has visited
Yokohama, and the Japanese press has made it quite clear that this friendly
act is regarded as a kind of “gesture of counterblast" to the Australian visit
of the United States Pacific fleet. Admiralty appointments have been made
to Singapore which indicate that the work of developing that base is now
being entered upon in earnest.
There is nothing out of the normal in any of these events, but, taken
collectively, they certainly serve to accentuate the fact that strategical con-
sideration is now centered in the Pacific. The degree of international
comment caused by the prolonged cruise of the United States Pacific fleet
impelled the Navy Department to issue a manifesto upon the subject,
pointing out, in effect, that there was really nothing for any other power
to worry about in this unusual parade of armed force. We are told that the
recent annual maneuvers of the British and French Aeets in the Mediter-
ranean, and of the Japanese feet in its own waters, caused no "alarm”:
why, then, should the American naval maneuvers cause any "aların"? There
have been no recent British naval maneuvers, only combined fleet exercises.
The French maneuvers were confined to the idea of guarding the route be-
tween Toulon and the North African possessions in the event of war. The
scheme of the Japanese operations I know nothing about, but from the
fact that these were carried out in local waters, it seems reasonable to
assume that they were of a defensive character.
The United States naval maneuvers were a grand strategical demon-
stration of the ability of the Pacific fleet to maintain command of the
central Pacific. Honolulu was the base, and it was a part of the scheme
that Honolulu should be attacked, and should succumb. The result furnishes
an adequate justification for the plea to render Honolulu invulnerable to
such an attack, but strategical maneuvers are apt to be regarded as a re-
hearsal for realities: they postulate conditions which would be very likely
to arise in the event of hostilities. The suggestion of an attack upon
Honolulu, and the emphasizing of the necessity to effectively fortify Hono-
lulu, naturally gives rise to the question what power is likely to attack
Honolulu ? Incidentally, certain Japanese newspapers have put forward this
hypothetical point-and answered it.
I admit that we must concede an equal right to ask the same question in
connection with Singapore. The opponents to the scheme of development
in the House of Commons have asked pointblank who is threatening us in
the Pacific, and to the answer that nobody is threatening us, they add the
question as to whether it is not really a provocative act to proceed with de-
fensive measures against a non-existent menace? This is very plausible
reasoning, but it is pure sophistry, since, followed to its logical conclusion, it
negatives both the prudence and the necessity for naval defense in peace
time at all,
Since the United States undertook not to further fortify Manila nor
Guam at the Washington Conference, she is left without any adequate
fleet base in the Pacific. Honolulu, strategically, is of very inferior value
to either of the other two places, but it is far better than no base at all.


  p. 1515 (#433)                      #

1925]
1515
Professional Notes
To the question as to why the United States needs naval bases in the
Pacific, the obvious answer is because she maintains a Pacific fleet. Rightly
or wrongly, she assumes that any conceivable menace to her shores will
come by way of the Pacific. The simplest and surest way of ensuring
that it shall not come is by being prepared to meet it. In this country we
may regard the United States as rather unnecessarily demonstrative in her
method of proclaiming this preparation. It somehow scarcely fits in with
her plea for peace and disarmament, but as to the wisdom of her policy
there can be no question. Facing her across the Pacific is a first-class power
with a first-class navy. There is only one sane response to such a confront-
ment. It is the response which England (and I write England deliberately,
for any Scotsman or Welshman to strike out if he pleases) has steadily
made for the past four centuries.
Despite the incessant, and not uniformly genial references to the British
Navy in the United States, I think we may definitely take it that the real
objective of American sea power is Japanese sea power. I would go
further, and say that a study of Japanese naval policy (as far as it is
revealed to the world) and of the character of Japanese naval shipbuilding
leads us to the view that the real objective of Japanese sea power is
American sea power. I do not suggest the necessary existence of any
hostile attitude in this posture of affairs. The knowledge that the per-
fectly friendly man across the street carries a revolver in his hip-pocket
need not cause you to conclude that he is only awaiting a favorable oppor-
tunity for a shot at you, but it might very possibly give you the idea of
carrying a revolver, too.
Today the United States and Japan are rivals in the Pacific-friendly
rivals, if you will, but still rivals. Japan has risen to great naval strength
since her war with Russia, and the United States views this strength with
concern. This is the explanation of the rivalry. At one time the pos-
sibility of a Japanese descent upon the shores of California was openly
talked about, and at one time it was undoubtedly a perfectly feasible thing
to attempt. The United States decided that it should no longer remain in
the category of comparatively easy practicability. The completion of the
Panama Canal gave her the first great opportunity of effective defensive
measures. Today she is in a position in which Japan cannot threaten her.
But the vital question is as to whether the time may not come when she
will threaten Japan?
It is not within my present purpose to attempt a review of the circum-
stances under which such a situation might arise. They are sufficiently re-
vealed to any student of the trend of events in the Far East. Not one of all
these possible causes of war but is quite capable of peaceful settlement.
The fact that they remain possible causes of war in the meantime is, how-
ever, a sufficient reason for the maintenance of armaments upon a scale
adequate to the waging of war. I do not believe there is any serious pros-
pect of war for as far ahead as it is humanly possible to look; but at the
present day there remain only three great navies in the world, and when
we think of the possibility of naval warfare we instinctively think of these
three navies. Our own policy is to keep the peace at any price to which honor
and common sense could consent. There remain only the fleets of the
United States and Japan to consider, and it is only natural to assume that
if they ever come to fighting at all they will fight one another. I am not
ignoring the existence of the other great sea powers, but these have now
accepted a policy of purely defensive measures. Harboring no aggressive de-
signs, they are no longer maintaining forces equal to undertaking aggressive
warfare.


  p. 1516 (#434)                      #

1516
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Thus it has come about that what the modern strategist terms, the
"focal zone" has become centered in the Pacific. Such an unprecedented
widening of strategical outlook is likely to exercise a marked effect upon
change. The only justification for big dimensions in a submarine is the
naval design. The gigantic submarine is undoubtedly one product of the
necessity of long-distance cruising; her great asset of concealment is re-
duced as her displacement is increased and her tactical mobility is lessoned.
When the Admiralty despatched K-26 on a voyage to Singapore and back
last year they incidentally gave us a pretty good clue to the tactical idea
embodied in the X-1, and in the still bigger submarine which is to follow
her. The question of the value of the capital ship in relation to wide
ocean distances is bound to come under serious review, but I do not want
a revert here to a topic which I have been discussing a good deal of late.
A conflict between the United States and Japan would be a great war.
Our own attitude toward such a struggle is almost impossible to conceive.
Much, of course, would depend upon the casus belli, and the development
of the war. On the face of it, the odds appear overwhelmingly against Japan,
since there is no comparison between her capacity of endurance and that of
the United States. Strategical conditions probably would be heavily in
favor of Japan, since America would have to carry the war into the region
of Japanese choice. If one seeks the possible cause of such a war we na-
turally think of China, and of the situation which may arise when Japan,
bound to find expansion for her teeming population, is driven into a policy
which conflicts with the interests of the United States, for the interest of
the United States in China is very much greater than is generally realized
in this country. It is not an altruistic interest; not an unselfish interest;
and I am not sure that the Japanese are wholly wrong when they say that
there is a distinct savor of the Monroe Doctrine about it. Not this year,
nor next year, are we likely to see anything in the way of an ominous situa-
tion over this question, but the cloud is hovering over the horizon of the
future and casting a shadow of ominous import over the Pacific zone.
UNITED STATES
Economics of the Next Naval Conference
Scientific American, July, 1925.—The naval bill which went through last
winter requests the President to call another conference "by which arma-
ments shall be effectually reduced and limited in the interests of the peace
of the world, and the relief of all nations from inordinate and unnecessary
expenditures for armaments and preparation for war." Our Appropriation
Bill for the fiscal year 1926 carries the following items :
Personnel
.........$174,000,000
Operation and upkeep of ships .....
Aviation ...............
15,000,000
Public Works and repairs of Yards and Docks ........ 9,000,000
Increase of Navy (new ships construction) .......... 7,000,000
All other items (administration, War College, etc.) ... 8,000,000
.
74,0
0,000
Total Budget ..........
u Duaget ..................................$287,000,000
It is evident that if any considerable reduction in expenditures is to be
made, it must be in the first two items of "Personnel” and “Operation
and Upkeep of Ships.” The present ratio of strength of the United States,
Great Britain and Japan is 5-5-3. It has been suggested that if the per-
sonnel, or pay expenses, and those for keeping our ships in full commission
were cut in half in each navy, and the ratio were renamed 272-272-212 it


  p. 1517 (#435)                      #

1925]
1517
Professional Notes
would be possible to save at a stroke $87,000,000 in the pay bill and
$37,000,000 in the operation and upkeep of ships; for, with the personnel
cut in half, eventually only half as many ships as at present would be
maintained in full commission, the rest being held in reserve; and we would
realize a saving of $124,000,000 without in any degree impairing the relative
treaty strength of the three countries concerned.
Whether such a drastic cut is desirable or no, it is for the nations con-
cerned to say. The mere suggestion of such a thing would, of course,
arouse a perfect tornado of opposition, not only in our own Navy, but in
those of Great Britain and Japan. Nevertheless, the thing is logical.
If we want to prevent “inordinate and unnecessary expenditures," here is
the only way to do it; since appropriations for aviation, public works, new
ships and administration are already cut to the bone.
The Scientific American does not say that this halving of the personnel
of the three navies should be done. We merely offer the suggestion for
the serious consideration of our readers. Think it over!
American Fleet Outranges British, Asserts Bywater
By Hector C. Bywater, The Baltimore Sun, 22 June, 1925.—London,
June 10.-A new turn has been given to the debate on naval ratios in
general, and the gun elevation problem in particular, by publication of the
testimony heard by the subcommittee of the House Committee on Appro-
priations, which recently inquired into the question of United States naval
strength.
Some of the data brought out by this hearing are of a very remarkable
character, but the whole report is highly instructive.
Here for the first time really accurate figures of American and British
gun ranges are presented. They show the gun power of the United States
battle fleet to be greater, and that of the British fleet less, than was sug-
gested by unofficial figures previously circulated in the American press.
More than this, they indicate clearly that in a duel at the extreme range
at which, according to certain American naval critics, the first decisive hits
will be scored, the United States fleet would possess an overwhelming ad-
vantage, being able to bring a 5-1 concentration of heavy guns to bear.
So far from the United States fleet being outranged, the shoe is on the
other foot, judging from these figures. Uncle Sam now has five battleships
armed with 14-in. and 16-in. guns, which range from 34,500 to 35,500 yards.
The five ships mount between them forty-eight of these weapons.
In the British fleet of today there is not a single gun of corresponding
range. The Hood has eight 15-in. guns able to fire up to 30,300 yds., but all
other British ships are limited to a range of 24,300 yds. or less.
A British admiral approaching to engage the United States battle squad-
rons would find himself in an unenviable position. If visibility was high
and the American aircraft spotting efficient, his ships would first come under
heavy fire at a range of twenty miles. Not until he had reduced the dis-
stance by three miles could he send a single shot in return, and then he
would have only eight guns in action against forty-eight.
It is, however, improbable that he would be allowed to reduce the dis-
tance, for the collective speed of his fleet would be no higher than that
of the Americans, and the latter would take good care to maintain their
overwhelming tactical advantage by turning away every time their opponent
tried to close the range.
With forty-eight guns firing at them, hits on the British ships would
be likely to be numerous, even at this great distance, and since the shells
would fall at a steep angle, plunging through the decks and exploding in


  p. 1518 (#436)                      #

1518
[Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
the bowels of the ship, they would be far more destructive than ordinary
flat trajectory fire. Given reasonably accurate shooting, the best of the
British battleships might be knocked out long before their own guns could
reach the target.
The British position will undergo improvement two years hence when
the new ships Nelson and Rodney are commissioned, for their 16-in. bat-
teries are certain to have a very long reach, but even then the American
ficet will have five long-range ships against three.
The whole American case for enlarging turret-gun elevation pivots on
the theory that with modern methods of fire control the only limit of
effective shooting is that imposed by (1) visibility and (2) the ballistic
qualities of the gun. The decisive range—that is, the range at which
sufficient hits are registered to determine the issue of the combat-has been
fixed somewhat arbitrarily at 23,000 to 24,000 yds., because this happens to
be the distance at which eight American battleships would be unable to
use their guns.
If the American postulate is sound, decisive results may be looked for
with equal confidence at ranges above 25,000 yds., in which case the United
States fleet already has a tactical preponderance that is overwhelming.
These figures certainly weaken the case for gun-elevation, which has
hitherto rested on premises now exposed as fallacious. It would be per-
missible for the British to argue that the range inferiority of America's
eight oldest ships no more than offsets the immense superiority of her five
newest ships—that, in fact, the existing position strikes a neat balance be-
tween the collective batteries of the two fleets.
Compared with the Japanese battleship force, the United States fleet has
a big lead in gun power. It possesses five ships ranging up to 34,500-35,500
yds., and five that can shoot up to 24,000 yds. Japan has only two ships with
a range of 30,000 yds., and over. Her other eight ships are restricted to
24,000 yds.
The House subcommittee investigation has done good service by showing
up the exaggerated statements made last year by certain naval agitators
whose zeal ran away with their discretion. They did their best to prove
that, while the British and Japanese Navies were maintained at the topnotch
of perfection, the American Navy was rotten to the core.
The plain truth is that every naval service has become more or less
deficient since the war, owing to the imperative need for economy, but
there is nothing to show that the American fleet has suffered more than
others frorn this enforced parsimony. It is only that its shortcomings are
advertised a little more freely, perhaps.
There is, of course, a real and very serious shortage of cruisers and
large submarines, which the building program now in hand will do some-
thing to make good. But, in other aspects of material fighting power, the
American Navy will stand comparison with the sea forces of any nation.
AVIATION
General Patrick on Independent Air Force
Aviation, 15 June, 1925.—December 19, 1924. Subject: Reorganization
of air forces for national defense. To: The Adjutant General.
It has been evident to me for some time that the existing organization
and method of administration of the Army Air Service present many com-
plex problems, not a few of which are peculiar to this branch alone. In
the general consideration of the major problems of the Army there are
repeatedly found exceptions pertaining to the Air Service which place ad-
ditional burdens upon the War Department as a whole, when possibly the


  p. 1519 (#437)                      #

1925)
1519
Professional Notes
Air Service alone should be held responsible for their solution. Several
methods have been suggested to rectify the present difficulties; none has
yet met with general approval.
The Air Service is a growing factor in national defense; from day to
day its rôles become increasingly important; many phases of our war plans
must be constantly altered to keep pace. In any future emergency involving
our military forces, particularly in the early phases thereof, the air force
must be considered one of the vital factors.
The proper development of the Air Service and the determination of
the rôle it shall play in national defense are matters which deserve, and
should receive, the most careful consideration. The Air Service must be so
organized and maintained that it may be able to meet effectively the
responsibilities placed upon it.
I am convinced that the ultimate solution of the air defense problem of
this country is a united air force; that is, the placing of all the component
air units, and possibly all aeronautical development under one responsible and
directing head. Until the time when such a radical reorganization can be
effected certain preliminary steps may well be taken, all with the ultimate
end in view.
The transition to the ultimate solution will require time and study and
the passage of careful prepared legislation. This step should not be
taken hastily. However, there is an immediate need for certain remedial
measures. Legislation to place into effect the provisions of the Lassiter
Board, approved in principle by the Secretary of War over a year and a
half ago, should be enacted at once and so broadened as to incorporate
features for the development of the Air Service along the lines indicated
herein. To place upon the Chief of Air Service additional functions which
would relieve the War Department of certain of its responsibilities toward
the Air Service is not without precedent, as evidenced by the Marine Corps,
which is not a part of the Navy Department but is under the Secretary of
the Navy. In fact, some such organization as this might be a very appro-
priate step to take at this time. As in the case of the Marine Corps,
such a reorganization need not contemplate duplication of any activity which
could be efficiently carried on by existing War Department agencies.
There are many details, in addition to those appearing in the succeeding
paragraphs, relating to the present status of the Air Service and its ad-
ministration under the War Department, which should receive consideration.
The purpose of this paper is to show that an unsatisfactory condition
exists and that, in order for the Air Service to develop and assume its
proper place in national defense a departure from present methods must
be inaugurated.
The commissioned personnel problem is most serious and perplexing.
This service suffers nearly half of all the deaths annually in the Army-in
1921, 42 per cent; in 1922, 43 per cent; in 1923, 47 per cent; in 1924, 41
per cent_and yet the replacement of this personnel peculiarly adapted to
Air Service requirements, must in general follow the same system as pro-
vided for the other branches of the Army. The principle of placing reserve
officers on active duty in the Air Service for long periods of time has been
recognized by the Lassiter Board and approved April 24, 1923, by the
Secretary of War; yet the number so carried is negligible under War De-
partment appropriations. The position of the great bulk of the junior
officers of the Air Service on the promotion list is deplorable. Early in
1922 the Shanks Board appointed by the War Department reported in part:
“The board is of the opinion that this situation will affect adversely the
efficiency of the Air Service. .... The Air Service is the only branch or
arm of the service which is adversely affected as a corps by the promotion


  p. 1520 (#438)                      #

1520
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
situation.” Several methods have been suggested by me to rectify these
difficulties under which the Air Service is at present laboring, and yet the
status of my officers remains unchanged.
The flying personnel of the Air Service requires training very different
from that of others. Training policies of the War Department must carry
exceptions or special regulations be provided for the Air Service.
The nonflying part of the enlisted personnel for the Air Service should
be primarily mechanicians and technicians. They must be trained specialists.
These enlisted men form practically no part of the actual fighting personnel
of the Air Service, their work is principally the maintenance of the fighting
machine. They are armed only with the pistol. Manifestly, the disciplinary
instruction, drills, and combat maneuvers are not so essential to the prepara-
tion for their mission as in the other combatant branches. Many of the
conditions surrounding their work are not found in the other combat arms.
Accordingly, exceptions are made to many of the general policies of the
War Department for the recruitment, training and employment of the en-
listed man.
The great mobility of the Air Service and the missions it is capable
of performing have created a problem in command, the solution of which is
still far from satisfactory. It is comparatively easy to place limitations-
actual boundaries on the ground-between a theater of operations, a zone of
communications, and a zone of the interior; but for the Air Service these
all merge into one. Command becomes complicated, and somewhat over-
lapping, when air forces, based on airdromes in the zone of the interior
carrying our missions in the theater of operations in connection with the
ground troops or far beyond the hostile lines. The Lassiter Board has
chosen to state that "this force should be organized into large units, insur-
ing great mobility and independence of action." Future emergencies will
require at the very outset, before the ground armies can get under way, and
in many cases before the Navy can make its power effective, the maximum
use of air power on strategic missions. Provision for the command of these
air forces has not been satisfactorily made, nor is it known by me that there
are even provisions for such initial air operations. We should gather our air
forces together under one air commander and strike at the strategic points
of our enemy—cripple him even before the ground forces can come in con-
tact. Air power is coordinate with land and sea power and the air com-
manders should sit in councils of war on an equal footing with the
commanders of the land and sea forces.
Coast defense is a problem which it appears only a united air force can
satisfactorily solve. The functions of the Army and Navy air forces
overlap, and considerable confusion still exists as to the coordination that
is necessary and the functions each service perform in order to secure an
actual and practical defense. As an immediate and practical step toward
efficiency and economy, the Army Air Service should be definitely charged
with all air operations conducted from shore stations. Ultimately all air
forces in the aerial defense of our coasts should be placed under one air
commander and powers delegated to this commander that would permit
the greatest latitude in the performance of his mission.
A proper uniform for the Air Service has heretofore been recommended
by me to the War Department. The high standing collar of the Army ser-
vice uniform is wholly inappropriate for use by flying personnel. Medical
officers have recommended against it and fliers themselves have repeatedly
complained of its interference in the performance of their duties. The
present uniform is also unsuited for work about aircraft. The Chief of Air
Service should be authorized to submit a design for a suitable uniform for


  p. 1521 (#439)                      #

1925]
1521
Professional Notes
his officers and men. Morale, as well as Aying and working efficiency, would
be greatly increased thereby.
Estimates from year to year for the Air Service are in accord with the
prescription of the War Department. Cuts in the Budget have naturally
been shared by the Air Service. In his first message to Congress the Presi.
dent said: “Additional planes are needed for the Army. .
."
The National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics stated in its annual re-
port last year: "Whatever may be the demands of economy, serious consid-
eration must be given to the increasing relative importance of aircraft in
warfare, and funds appropriated to equip and maintain adequately the Air
Service of the Army and Navy.” In sending this report to Congress, the
President laid particular emphasis on the importance of continued develop-
ment of military and naval aviation. I believe if the entire estimates for the
Air Service were considered apart from those for the Army and the Chief
of Air Service designated to defend them under a separate appropriation
title, benefits would accrue to both the Army as a whole and the Air Ser-
vice in particular.
The Air Service is a supply branch and its work as such is almost en-
tirely for its own service. Methods applicable to a supply branch like the
Quartermaster Corps or the Ordnance Department, that supply several
branches of the Army, are not always adaptable to the Air Service. Air
Service procurement, storage and issue problems, and the policies regarding
distribution and usage are matters that should be a responsibility of the
Chief of Air Service, guided by very general policies established by the
Secretary of War.
In furtherance of my conviction, as stated in paragraph 4, above, that
additional responsibilities should be placed upon the Chief of Air Service,
I recommend that immediate action be taken on the following:
Legislation should be prepared to make effective the provisions of the
Lassiter Board for the expansion and development of the Air Service and
this legislation should be submitted to Congress, accompanied by a special
message from the President, setting forth its importance, in time for action
to be had thereon not later than in the first session of the Sixty-ninth
Congress. The recommendations of this board were approved in principle
by the Secretary of War on April 24, 1923, and later in detail, after the
joint board had given careful consideration and made only minor changes.
(J. B. No. 349, Sept. 11, 1923.)
Legislation should be prepared for the reorganization of the Air Service
and as an air corps apart from the War Department. This legislation
should be submitted to Congress, accompanied by a special message from
the President setting forth its importance, in time for action to be had
thereon not later than in the first session of the Sixty-ninth Congress. The
work in preparation and submission of this legislation should not operate
to delay action in making effective the recommendations contained in (a)
above. Among the provisions that should be included in this reorganiza-
tion are:
There should be in war plans one air commander, who, in at least the
initial stages of an emergency, should control all operations of the air
forces, both in the performance of distance strategic missions and in joint
action with the land and sea forces.
The Army Air Service should be definitely charged with all air opera-
tions conducted from shore bases.
The Chief of Air Service should be responsible for the tactical training
and efficiency of all Air Service units with a doctrine first of offensive ac-
tion. This should include the means to secure and assure this efficiency.


  p. 1522 (#440)                      #

1522
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The Chief of Air Service should be required to submit and defend legis-
lation necessary to maintain a proper system for the procurement, assign-
ment, promotion, elimination and retirement of his personnel. The sources
for the procurement of commissioned personnel should include all these
now employed by the War Department.
The Chief of Air Service should be authorized to submit the design of
a uniform suitable for the requirements of his corps.
Estimates for the entire cost of the Air Service should be prepared by
the Chief of Air Service under one appropriation title and defended by him
before Congress.
The Chief of Air Service, in addition to being responsible for the pro-
curement, storage and issue of all items peculiar to the Air Service, should
formulate the policies regarding their distribution and usage. He should
also be responsible for transportation by air of personnel and supplies.
The time has arrived for constructive legislation which will provide for
the expansion and development of the Air Service and I urgently recom-
mend that action be immediately taken by the War Department to bring
this matter to the attention of Congress.
The Performance of Future Airplanes
U. S. Air Services, July, 1925.—Major H. H. Arnold.Most people
would say that the history of aeronautics has not been such as to warrant
anybody's making any sort of prediction for the future. There is, how-
ever, a fair enough basis on which to estimate something about how fast,
how far, and how high airplanes of various types may be expected to go in
the next four or five years. The value of a performance characteristic
prediction is obvious. In the military field such predictions must be made
constantly if our national defense is to keep apace with other nations. In
the commercial and sporting worlds such estimates are necessary if our
planes are to compete on the race course and in aerial transportation with
other nations.
In the set of curves which accompany this article it has been my effort
to present curves that will show the trend of design rather than the per-
formance of any particular airplane. To avoid confusion, I shall discuss
in the following paragraphs the subject of airplane speeds, ceilings, and
endurance in order.
The speed of heavier-than-air craft has, perhaps, received more popular
attention than any other one characteristic. This is due, no doubt, to the
fact that the airplane's speed is so much greater than that of any other
vehicle. The curve showing the world's record for maximum speed is
shown as beginning with about 150 miles an hour in 1917. As a matter of
fact, no world record was made in that year. However, that point was
selected as a representative point on the upward slope of the curve, where
actual engineering design had begun to appear. From 1913 to 1917, many
events transpired to change the form of this curve. The World War inter-
vened, during which no efforts were made at setting world's records. From
the point of view of design it was not until after the war that engineers
really set about the work with the same scientific attack applied to other
engineering problems. In 1919 the first postwar record of about 166 miles
an hour was made by a Frenchman. That speed has been regularly in-
creased, the record going back and forth between the United States and
France until at the present time the record stands a little over 278 miles
an hour.
It is of interest in passing to speculate as to what the form of the curve
would have taken had not the war intervened. It is certain that airplane
designers received a great impetus from wartime lessons. It is also certain


  p. 1523 (#441)                      #

1925]
1523
Professional Notes
that the curve would have reached greater heights during the years 1915-17
had there been no war. The slope, however, probably would not have been
quite as steep had it begun at that time. It may be that about the same
point would have been reached at the present date, although a more gradual
development would have brought it about. From this same line of reason-
ing, we wonder what the continuation of the curve in the next few years
will be. Will it follow the dotted portion shown on the chart, or curve
downward, or possibly incline more steeply upward?
All of the queries in the preceding paragraph are, of course, difficult to
answer because they are in an area as yet unexplored. In the case, however,
of the curves showing the performance of pursuit, observation and bom-
bardment airplanes which lay a considerable distance below the world's
record speeds, the trend in the near future is not so obscure. We are here
50
SPEED IN MILAS PER MOUR
200 250
J00

SO
100
150
350
1929
SPEED HAS BEEN REGULARLY INCREASED, THE RECORD GOING BACK AND FORTH
BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND FRANCE UNTIL AT THE PRESENT TIME
THE RECORD STANDS A LITTLE OVER 278 MILES AN HOUR.
only traveling over a path already opened by the world's record craft. It is,
then, a fair guess that the speeds of the various types may be expected to
follow approximately the curves shown in the dotted portion of the chart.
Returning to the maximum speed curve, it is worth while to consider
if we may expect a high speed limit or at least what factors might enter
into it. First of all, unless some method is discovered for protecting the
pilot, speeds much greater than that of the present world's record will be
difficult of attainment on account of the effect on the human body. On the
other hand, the airplane itself is going to have to undergo some big changes
if we are to continue up the incline shown by the dotted line. Somewhere,
we know, there should be a "terminal velocity" governed by the head re-
sistance of the airplane and the power available to drive it. When this
point is reached, however, it is probable that the wings of the airplane will
have mostly disappeared, it being presumed that sufficient lift to support
the craft in the air will be provided at such great speeds with an extremely


  p. 1524 (#442)                      #

1524
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
small amount of surface. It is worthy of mention also, that before such
speeds are reached, we shall also have to progress considerably further in
the matter of propeller design. Because of all these requirements, it is
hardly prudent to predict just where the maximum speed record will fall
in 1929. However, as pointed out before, the same difficulty does not apply
to service airplanes, inasmuch as even though they followed the curves
extended as shown, they would arrive in 1929 at a speed much less than the
present world's record.
While on the subject of military aircraft and great speeds, it is by no
means certain just how great a speed is desirable. It is, of course, possible
to build a pursuit airplane that will travel fifty, seventy-five, or possibly
more miles an hour faster than the present ones. The question then arises
ALTITUDE IN TNOW AND FEET
30
40

20
1989
IN PURSUIT AIRPLANES IT IS PRESUMABLE THAT, FOR SOME TIME TO COME,
WE SHALL GO ON STRIVING FOR GREATER ALTITUDE, BECAUSE THE ADVAN-
TAGE TO THE PILOT WHO IS ABLE TO FLY ABOVE HIS ADVERSARY IS YET
OF IMPORTANCE.
whether there will be any value in having such a pursuit airplane. Would
it be possible to maneuver it? Would it ever be necessary to maneuver it?
If the craft were itself capable of maneuvering at such extreme speeds,
could the pilot stand it, and at the same time would it be possible to manipu-
late fighting equipment fast enough to be effective? These are some of the
questions, then, that may be expected to influence the pursuit speed curve
as well as matters of pure airplane design.
In the case of observation and bombardment airplanes, even though the
curves are extended along the lines they have been going, we are again
below the excess speeds of the pursuit craft. Observation and bombardment
airplanes have certain characteristics which must be maintained, which may
in the future limit speed more than they have in the past. In other words,
it may be that the curve extensions will not be as indicated by past per-
formances.


  p. 1525 (#443)                      #

1925]
1525
Professional Notes
In observation airplanes, greater and greater radii of operation are
being required. This, in turn, means that a greater load of fuel must be
carried. If a greater load of fuel is to be carried, this, in turn, may intro-
duce features of design which will cut down the speed unless a new power
plant appears.
In the case of bombardment, the same reasoning applies as to observa-
tion craft. Every day greater loads of bombs are demanded and at the
same time the ability to carry them further into enemy territory. The de-
sign of an airplane is a compromise and consequently if we get great load
carrying and endurance we must sacrifice some other characteristic.
This reasoning, of course, will be overthrown in the event that a power
plant is discovered which weighs only a fraction of our present power
plants for the same horse power and which requires only a fraction of the
fuel on which to operate.
In the past, several designers have made the mistake of designing their
airplane as of today, knowing full well that it could not be produced ready
for flying in less than about a year. The result has been that at the date
of production the airplane was a year behind the times. This is strikingly
shown on the observation curve by the small triangle (a), (b), (c). If an
airplane is to be designed in 1925, which will be produced in 1926, then it
must be designed for the characteristics shown by point (b) on the curve,
Otherwise, it will have a speed less than it should equal to (b-c), which
ten or fifteen miles might be quite serious in case of war, with a country
whose engineers had designed their airplanes with advanced requirements
in mind. If this same line of reasoning is applied to a four-year develop-
ment program, when present-day standards are used, it will be seen by the
curves that we might arrive in 1929 with an observation airplane of bom-
bardment speed, as shown at point (d), instead of the speed it should
have, shown at point (e).
A study of the curves of the world's altitude records and the altitude
curves of military aircraft show much the same characteristics as the speed
curves discussed above. Unfortunately, the present world's altitude record
does not tally very well with the present average ceilings of service type
airplanes. For this reason the trend of the curve is not as indicative as it
might be. In other words, it is difficult to tell whether or not the curve
should take the form shown by the dotted portions A or B..
In any event, the curves will be materially affected by the development
of apparatus especially made for the operation of airplanes at high alti-
tudes. This apparatus will include superchargers for the engine and some
sort of provision for the pilot, either in the way of oxygen breathing equip-
ment, electrically heated clothing, or air-tight cockpits.
Again we arrive in our discussion as to the altitude which may be de-
sirable for military purposes. In the case of bombardment airplanes, it
will be affected by the accuracy of bomb sights, the climb and endurance
of the craft, and possibly to some slight degree by the development of
anti-aircraft guns. In the case of observation, average visibility and the
range of photographic equipment will be important factors. In pursuit air-
planes it is presumable that for some time to come we will go on striving
for greater altitude characteristics because the advantage to the pilot who
is able to fly above his adversary is yet of importance. Whether this im-
portance is lessened by excess speed is something of a question. The choice
may be even forced as to whether we desire pursuit airplanes for extremely
high altitudes or for extremely great speeds.
The endurance of airplanes from a military viewpoint is always of the
utmost importance. The world's record at the present moment is nearly
thirty-eight hours. If the curve continues regularly, we may expect in the


  p. 1526 (#444)                      #

1526
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
next two or three years an endurance record of forty-two hours or more.
What this means to military aviation is that presently a limit will be reached
beyond which, with present fuel and engines, it will be impossible to go.
We shall then have arrived at the same point in this direction cited as
"terminal velocity" in the case of speed records. This may be upset at any
moment by the same development of power plants as mentioned above.
Assuming, however, that such a level for the curve is found, then the design
of military aircraft is a simple matter of compromise between fuel load and
distance.
Curves showing the progress of military airplanes in the matter of en-
durance have not been presented, since the development has not been rapid
or accelerated enough to make the curve of interest. Pursuit airplanes for

ENDURANCE IN HOURS
10
70
30
40
THE WORLD RECORD FOR ENDURANCE OF AIRPLANES IS NEARLY THIRTY-EIGHT
HOURS. IF THE CURVE CONTINUES REGULARLY, WE MAY EXPECT IN THE
NEXT TWO OR THREE YEARS AN ENDURANCE RECORD OF FORTY-TWO HOURS
OR MORE.
several years have had an endurance of from one and one-half hours to
two and one-half hours, which is still the case. At the end of the war the
Caproni and Handley-Page Bombers were capable of three or four hours
endurance and today our long distance bombers are capable of from seven
to nine hours continuous Aight. Practically the same statement applies to
the observation airplane, the difference being, of course, in the fact that the
observation machine travels at a greater rate of speed.
In conclusion, it seems wise to let each reader make his own prediction
as to what the speed, endurance, and ceiling of various types of airplanes
will be in 1925, 1926, and 1927, from the data given, rather than to put
down figures that might be misinterpreted. The estimate which the reader
makes will be accurate in porportion to the care he exercises in applying
the reasoning set forth.


  p. 1527 (#445)                      #

1925)
1527
Professional Notes
Airships for Military Purposes
C. deF. Chandler, Lieutenant Colonel, U. S. Army, Retired, U. S. Air
Services, July, 1925.-According to the nomenclature adopted by English
speaking nations several years ago, the term airship refers only to the
dirigible balloon form of aircraft. Structurally, airships are referred to
in three classes : non-rigid, semi-rigid, and rigid types. The smallest and
most simple form is the non-rigid, whereas the rigid type, of which the
Los Angeles is an example, has a rigid metal frame to maintain its shape.
The semi-rigid is intermediate in size, with structural features that merge
into the smaller and larger classes.
In principle, experience acquired in previous wars is a good basis for
teaching the art of war but often there is disagreement regarding the
lessons deduced from earlier conflicts. The United States Army used no
airships during the World War, while the Navy lacked the opportunity for
operating their few directly against the enemy: consequently little atten-
tion is devoted to military airships at the present time. The important
operations of airships by other nations during the World War is known to
few officers in this country. Both the War and Navy air bureaus give
consideration to the military capabilities of airships, but it is doubtful
whether ground troops understand the extent of the aid that can be rendered
to their several arms by airships of various sizes. The purpose of this
article is to set forth briefly the service that can be expected from airships.
OPERATIONS IN DESERT REGIONS
Southwestern United States, likewise across the Mexican border, is an
extensive region presenting difficulties for ground troops due to lack of
water at convenient distances, together with few roads and railways.
Twenty miles between potable water is not uncommon, and occasionally
water must be consumed that tastes unpleasantly of alkalis. The infre-
quent rains usually come in the so-called cloudburst manner, cutting deep
ruts and arroyas while passing off rapidly over the sun-baked ground.
The vegetation generally consists of small shrubbery such as mesquit, cactus
and sagebush.
The faithful army mule and the more potent motor truck can transport
supplies in these dry regions and have done so successfully, but twenty miles
a day is usually sufficient for ground troops in roadless and waterless re-
gions. Even the more mobile cavalry is seriously hampered by the absence
of forage except for that transported long distances by wagon or motor
truck. With these conditions, operations against bandits by ground troops is
a slow and expensive process of doubtful efficacy as exemplified by the
Punitive Expedition into Mexico in 1916.
Here is a military situation in which small airships of either the non-
rigid or semi-rigid types would prove extremely valuable. The twenty-mile
daily march of infantry corresponds to a half hour flight by a small airship.
Ordinarily, small parties of bandits are able to move much faster than
troops, thus escaping easily unless a very large force is employed thoroughly
to comb a region and occupy it by garrisons in every village.
The superior speed of a small airship permits overtaking parties of
horsemen easily; while the ability to move slowly or stop near the ground
affords the opportunity for observing equipment, camps and questioning
individuals. Machine guns and a few, light bombs enable the airship to
inflict swift and sure punishment if attacked by bandits. A careful in-
spection of fifty square miles of rough country daily should be regarded as
an easy task for a small airship having a crew of only three or four persons.


  p. 1528 (#446)                      #

1528
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The area scouted will depend upon the adaptability of the terrain for
concealment and the number of stops required for interrogations.
In this connection, a logical question is, why not employ airplanes to per-
form such missions. The answer is that while airplanes can fly over this
desert region as well as elsewhere, a safe landing without serious damage
to the plane chassis is almost impossible due to the deep ruts and small
shrubbery. Without landing, the airplane is unable to come close to the
ground for satisfactory examinations and interrogations of suspicious per-
sons. It is this feature that makes the small airship particularly suitable
and the airplane unsuitable for operations against bandits in desert regions.
Operations involving hostile armies in any region are preceded by recon-
naissance patrols and contact patrols that can be performed at least in part
by small airships.
The field equipment such as transportable mooring masts and wind-
breaks for sheltering airships moored on the ground, are technical details
outside the scope of this article: these devices are in process of development
by the Army Air Service.
ANTI-SUBMARINE OPERATIONS
An expression frequently mentioned is that in warfare a new means of de-
struction soon results in the development of a counter remedy. The most
effective answer to the submarine vessel is the depth-charge: the manner of
its use from the vessels of the destroyer class is well known. There seems
to be a serious lack of appreciation in America of the proved value of air-
ships carrying depth charge bombs when operating against submarines.
The destroyer attack consists in steaming quickly to the spot where the
wake of the torpedo is first observed and there dropping a depth-charge.
That method permits two chances of error: The wake may not have been
observed at the beginning, or the submarine may have changed its location
after launching the torpedo.
The ability of aircraft observers to see through a considerable layer of
water affords a most valuable advantage. The altitude of aircraft above
the surface allows space for the dispersion of reflected sunlight, whereas the
concentrated reflected light interferes with seeing below the surface when
just above the water. Objects below the surface appear as shadows to aerial
observers. When a dark spot has the general shape of a submarine, the air
pilot has no doubt regarding his target..
Shortly after the World War Armistice, an officer of the Royal Air
Force described to the writer some of his experiences in piloting a small
airship on anti-submarine patrols. When a small spot of oil appeared or
bubble of air rose to the surface of the ocean, the airship regulated engine
speed so as to remain over that position for further careful observation.
Even though a submarine remained quietly at a depth too great to note the
shadow effect, it would not be long before oil or air bubbles betrayed
its presence. Then a depth-charge would be dropped accurately over the
target. At times the destructive effect was so great that personal effects
from the inside of the submarine would come to the surface following the
blast of the depth-charge.
For operations of this nature, a seaplane also could drop a depth-charge
if the target is observed during the brief passage at normal flying speed.
Obviously, the airship is superior for this service because of the ability to
hover while watching suspicious surface spots and at the same time easily
changing altitude according to light effects in searching for target shadow
and other indications.
Previous to equipping airships with depth-charges, the practice was


  p. 1529 (#447)                      #

(1925)
1529
Professional Notes
for airships discovering submarines to signal for a destroyer to come; in
the meantime following every movement directly above the submarine.
It is not always possible to know whether a submarine has been destroyed
after attack. One article from British sources reported forty-nine sub-
marines sighted by airship patrols, of which twenty-seven were successfully
attacked. The punishment by almost certain destruction doubtless was
responsible for enemy submarines preferring not to attack vessels convoyed
by airships.
The optical advantage of the airship previously mentioned, permits of
locating submarine mines as well as submarine vessels. The Royal Air
Force reported having sighted 134 mines of which 73 were destroyed.
At first the airship could only summon surface vessels to destroy mines,
but later in the war certain airships carried guns that could and did ex-
plode mines.
AIRSHIP Convoys
Airship convoying surface ships proved to be very effective protection
against submarines. The records of the Royal Air Force show that no
vessels were sunk by submarines while under convoy of aircraft, although
in the same waters the German submarines attacked ships when convoyed
only by destroyers.
Comparing the use of airplanes with seaplanes for convoy service, there
has been an impression that the former require far more personnel for
operation and maintenance. The most convincing answer on this point is
provided by British figures, as follows:
Airplanes
and
3.52
........
Airships Seaplanes
Men employed per hour flown ........ 1.62
Hours flown per men employed ........ 1.04
.40
Average duration of patrol ............ 6 hr. 17 min. 2 hr. 2 min.
When the effectiveness of airships for convoy and anti-submarine ser-
vices became certain, the expansion by the British was rapid toward the
end of the World War. Actually, the number of hours flown by airship in
each year were as follows:
1915
......... 339 hours
1916
................. 7,078 hours
1917 ..............
......22,389 hours
1918
.............................53,554 hours
Similarly the French used airships extensively from a number of stations
along the coast both for convoy and anti-submarine defense, but the opera-
tions statistics have not been made public as quoted above for the British.
Although it is conceded that seaplanes are able to operate in winds
of greater velocity than practicable for airships, it is interesting in this con-
nection to learn that from January 1, to November 11, 1918, there were only
nine days that weather conditions prevented British airships from flying.
During the last seventeen months of the World War, British airships
provided escorts for a total of 2,210 surface vessels; also accomplished
9,059 anti-submarine patrols. While performing these missions the air-
ships cruised nearly one and a half million miles. The total distance
traveled by British airships during the World War period was 2,245,000
miles.
As the atmosphere over the shore bases has the same characteristics as
atmosphere over the ocean, from an airman's viewpoint it makes no differ-
ence in the present division of duties whether the responsibility for this


  p. 1530 (#448)                      #

1530
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
service rests with the Navy or the Army. Like many things in life, “What
is everybody's business becomes nobody's business," so that little if any-
thing is being done toward providing in time of peace the coast defense
airship stations that will be needed on the first day of the next war.
STRATEGIC RECONNAISSANCE
A rigid type airship having a gas volume of five million cubic feet
should be able to accomplish a non-stop cruise to Europe and return if
all the pay load capacity is utilized for fuel. The military uses for such
a craft should easily be apparent.
It might be well at this time to recall the panic-stricken requests from
every community along the Atlantic seaboard during the early months of
the War with Spain. The exact location of the Spanish fleet was not
known. Each coast city and village was sure that its importance invited
attack. The natural procedure under the circumstances was for each mem-
ber of Congress along the seaboard to demand that the entire U. S. Navy
be stationed so as to protect his district.
In the spring of 1893 the cost of a few large airships, if then procurable,
would have been provided many times most willingly to remove the doubt
regarding the Spanish fleet. Unfortunately, that lesson is being forgotten,
due to time and because our last war was staged 3,000 miles from home.
A British authority on aeronautics has stated that a large airship is
capable of making a reconnaissance of 100,000 square miles of ocean each
day. The first impression may be that the statement exaggerates, but a
brief analysis is sufficient to prove it entirely reasonable. At an altitude
of one mile or more, visability at sea for anything so large as a fleet of
war vessels, is easily fifty miles on each side. Therefore it is only neces-
sary for an airship to travel forward 1,000 miles in a day to investigate
the 100,000 mile area. An airship having a speed of eighty miles an hour
(70 knots) therefore need travel only twelve and one half hours to cover
the area stated.
Admiral Beatty is quoted as saying that one rigid airship can do the
work of six scout cruisers.
MOTHER SHIP FOR AIRPLANES
Airplanes have been released and also attached to airships while in flight.
Whatever has been done once can be done again. When it is a matter of
human skill or engineering development, continued practice quickly produces
improved methods and facilities. The question no longer remains as to the
possibility of employing large airships as carriers for airplanes. After
having proved the case, money should be supplied willingly to follow-up the
experiments already made in this country. Nevertheless, it is advisable
to continue construction of surface vessels as airplane carriers until large
airships have been produced with facilities equal to present surface ships
for this purpose.
The taxpayers who supply the sinews for our national defense are not
much interested whether it is the Navy or the Army or a separate Executive
Department of the Government that develops this important military
arm for their protection, but experience has shown that excuses are never
accepted when the test of war arrives unexpectedly. According to the
organization at present provided by law, it should be the duty of either the
War or Navy Department to construct promptly an airship of at least five
million cubic feet capacity: its principal mission being experimental em-
ployment as an airplane carrier.


  p. 1531 (#449)                      #

1925]
1531
Professional Notes
A five or six million size rigid airship will fall short of providing a
satisfactory airplane carrier, but for engineering reasons, popularly phrased
as "Safety First," an airship of this size should be constructed and thor-
oughly tested before increasing the gas volume to perhaps ten million cubic
feet which is certain to be ample for the purpose.
Assuming a rigid type airship inflated with ten million cubic feet of
helium, it would be able to accomplish a non-stop voyage to Europe and
return (6,000 miles), allowing reserve fuel supply for an additional 3,000
miles, and still transport a military load of 187,000 pounds of airplanes or
other munitions.
MERCHANT MARINE
The Truth from Admiral Palmer
New York Times, 29 June, 1925.-Admiral Leigh C. Palmer, president of
the Emergency Fleet Corporation, addressed the National Foreign Trade
Convention at Seattle last Friday very frankly. His subject was ships en-
gaged in foreign trade. Admiral Palmer must have made his hearers
gasp when he said:
"After I became president of the Fleet Corporation I spent some time in
looking over the entire situation and shortly came to the conclusion that
the main trouble with our newest infant industry, the government-owned
merchant marine, was that it was suffering from too much easy money.
Instead of its getting down to real business and trying to come some-
where near living within its income, it was depending unduly upon the
national treasury.”
So Admiral Palmer entered upon a policy of getting down to real busi-
ness. He cut out some of the waste. The average loss on 320 cargo vessels
per voyage was reduced from $25,000 to $17,000. This was brought about
by consolidating lines that were in competition with one another and by
dropping ships from the active list. The result was that as many voyages
were made as before, "with a substantial increase of cargo and revenue
and a reduction of operating expenses." Unnecessary personnel in the
Fleet Corporation was eliminated and the payroll reduced in eighteen
months by $2,000,000. And here the Admiral made his hearers gasp
again: "We regard the improvement already made as merely a begin-
ning." He hoped to get the loss per voyage of the Government-owned
cargo fleet down to $8,500 per ship.
So far the prospect was rosier. But if the fleet could not be transferred
to private ownership, replacement with new and improved ships would
have to be faced. What would the cost of that be? Three hundred
-cargo ships are now being operated. Perhaps fifty could be sold. "If
our replacement program," said Admiral Palmer, "calls for twenty vessels
a year, the cost would average about $20,000,000 per year for the new
construction of the cargo fleet alone.” To this would have to be added
replacement of passenger liners and combination passenger and cargo
vessels, at a cost of $10,000,000 a year. “Thus," he went on, "unless the
Government can find a way to transfer its fleet to private ownership, as
contemplated by the Merchant Marine Act, we face the definite prospect
of having to spend about $30,000,000 a year continuously for replacement
alone." With improved administration the entire cost to the Government
of maintenance would be $40,000,000.
That figure of $40,000,000 was bedrock. The Government could not do
the job of operating its ships for less. But the "average American private
owner" could reduce the $13,500 loss per voyage to $4,500, said Admiral
Palmer, and “the same fleet, on similar services if operated under British
conditions would break about even." So this was the conclusion :


  p. 1532 (#450)                      #

1532
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
"This last figure, $4,500, may be taken as an approximate measure of
the amount of government aid that would be required to place American
vessels on a competitive footing with British vessels."
He was speaking of cargo ships only. Passenger service constituted
"a more or less special problem so far as government encouragement or aid
is concerned." Mail subventions and naval defense requirements might
take care of them. The cost of that to the Government he put at $7,500,000
a year. Add the same amount of "government aid” given to American
cargo vessels in foreign trade and the bill would be $15,000,000. The
"differential" of $4,500 between the operating costs of private American
and British ships might be largely offset, the Admiral intimated, by
"the extremely favorable terms on which American operators can purchase
vessels today.” This seemed to brighten the prospect a good deal, but really
only for a few years, because the time would come when lower British
costs of operation would tell again. The president of the Emergency
Fleet Corporation could not get round those lower British costs and finally
declared: "I want to emphasize the necessity of adopting an adequate
and workable scheme of government aid without much further delay."
He declined to suggest the form. He put that up to Congress, but we may
be sure that Congress will balk when anybody cries subsidy.
A Plan for the Protection of American Shipbuilding
By F. P. Palen, Vice President, Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry
Dock Company, Nautical Gasette, 13 June, 1925.—I think Congress should
protect the shipbuilding industry so the Standard Oil Company and the
United Fruit Company will have their vessels built in the shipyards of the
United States instead of foreign yards, as they are doing at the pres-
ent time.
I have no criticism to make of the action of the Standard Oil Company
and the United Fruit Company in placing their contracts in foreign ship-
yards, as they are doing exactly what I would do under our present laws.
My quarrel is, therefore, with our laws and not with the steamship
owners. Laws which cause American citizens to buy vessels from Krupp's
when at the same time they do not buy machinery or steel from Krupp's are
not just and fair to the shipbuilding industry of the United States.
If the vessels ordered by Americans from foreign yards during the past
two years had been built in the shipyards of this country, this work
would have gone a long way toward keeping the shipyards going.
On the other hand, if Congress does not provide protection for the
industry, which will be sufficient to cause the vessels required by American
owners to be built in the United States, I can see no hope for the industry.
I speak as a disinterested person, as I have no financial interest in any
shipyard.
Congress may think that the machinery and steel industries are of more
national importance than shipbuilding and therefore should be protected,
but in time of war shipbuilding always has been more important and al-
ways will be, so it seems to me that as a matter of national defense as
well as a matter of equity, equal protection should be given to these in-
dustries.
If the President and Congress believe that shipbuilding should be
protected so American citizens can have vessels built in the shipyards of
the United States at a cost as nearly as possible on a parity with the cost
of building them in other countries, then the problem becomes very simple.
There are many ways of protecting the shipbuilding industry to accomplish
this result.


  p. 1533 (#451)                      #

· 1925]
1533
Professional Notes
deered.
American owners should be encouraged to build in the United States
shipyards rather than forced to do so, and with this thought in mind I
think the simplest and most direct method of protection will be the best.
I therefore recommend an investment by the government in vessels for
foreign trade equal to the excess cost of building vessels in the United
States, and in return for this investment the United States retain certain
rights in the vessels from which a direct benefit will result, as well as the
indirect benefit resulting from maintaining the industry.
In time of war, the United States has always paid excessive prices for
ships, on account of its shipping policy. In fact, the United States spent,
lost and wasted enough money on account of its shipping policy during the
last war to protect its shipbuilding for the next one hundred years.
I appreciate that the United States has the right to commandeer ves-
sels in time of war, but this right is of no value if there are no vessels
under the American flag that are suitable for its purposes, as was the
case during the Spanish War and World War. We are approaching the
time when obsolete vessels must be replaced. The Standard Oil vessels
and the United Fruit Company vessels, above referred to, will not fly
the American flag, and therefore cannot be commandeered.
If the United States will invest wisely reasonable sums year by year
in vessels operated by American citizens in the foreign trade, it will benefit
and build up its shipyards and shipping and will make available vessels
when needed, at reasonable prices.
I have set forth these thoughts in the form of a bill for presentation to
Congress and I suggest that the shipbuilding industry request the President
and Congress to provide protection sufficient to accomplish the results I have
above outlined.
The bill is as follows:
An Act for Protecting the Shipbuilding Industry of the United States
of America
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United
States of America in Congress assembled :
Section 1. To provide vessels under the American flag that can be
purchased or chartered at reasonable prices by the United States in time
of war or national emergency; to provide for the purchase and charter of
such vessels by the United States at reasonable prices; to provide for the
replacement of vessels in the foreign trade as they become obsolete; to en-
courage citizens of the United States to build vessels to meet the demands
for the proper growth of our foreign trade, and to maintain a force of
workmen skilled in the art of shipbuilding in the shipyards of the United
States: It is declared the policy of the United States to encourage and
aid its shipbuilding industry sufficiently to cause ships to be built in the
shipyards of the United States for the foreign trade. To accomplish this
end, the United States will acquire an interest in the vessels built under
this Act and will pay a portion of the cost of vessels so built.
Section 2. That the government of the United States shall have the
right in case of war or national emergency to purchase or charter any of
the vessels built under this Act upon the conditions and terms hereinafter
set forth; that in the event a vessel built under the provisions of this Act
is owned or operated in violation of its terms or the flag changed during
the period the United States has an interest therein, the vessel shall be
subject to seizure and sale by the United States and the rights of the
United States as to its interests therein shall take precedence over all
mortgages, claims, liens, etc., against the vessel, and notice to this effect


  p. 1534 (#452)                      #

1534
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
shall be recorded in the Custom House at the vessel's hailing port and on the
vessel's papers carried on board.
Section 3. That vessels built under this Act shall be owned by citizens
of the United States as provided for in the Merchant Marine Act of 1920;
the vessels shall be of the most modern design and shall be approved by
the United States Shipping Board ; the vessels so built shall not engage
in the coastwise trade of the United States; the price of changes made
during the construction of the vessels, shall be submitted by the owners
to the United States Shipping Board for approval.
Section 4. That there shall be paid from any money in the treasury
not otherwise appropriated, upon the warrant of the Chairman of the
United States Shipping Board and with the approval of a majority of the
members of the Board, to the builders of vessels in the United States who
conform to this Act, a sum not less than 20 per cent or more than 30 per
cent of each and every vessel so built; the Comptroller of the treasury
shall be and he is hereby authorized and directed to make such payments
when duly certified by the chairman of the United States Board; and
the sum of Twenty Million Dollars ($20,000,000) shall be and it is hereby
appropriated for payments to be made on vessels constructed under this
Act; the interest of the United States in a vessel so built shall be de-
preciated at the rate of 5 per cent of the amount paid by the United States,
per annum, and shall cease at the end of twenty years.
Section 5. In the event of a sale and change of the flag of a vessel
built under this Act, before the interest of the United States ceases, the
United States shall be repaid for the interest it holds at the time of sale.
Section 6. That in case of war or national emergency, the United States
shall have the option of purchasing or chartering vessels built under this
Act for a period of twenty years after the date of documentation, on the
following terms:
If the vessel is purchased, the sum to be paid the owner by the United
States shall be the original cost of the vessel to the owner (executive of
the amount paid by the United States to the shipbuilder) less 5 per cent
per annum for depreciation.
If the vessel is chartered, the sum to be paid the owner by the United
States shall be at the rate of 11 per cent of the original cost of the vessel
to the owner (exclusive of the amount paid by the United States to the
shipbuilder), provided that all the costs of operation, maintenance, repairs,
insurance, and so forth are paid by the United States during the charter
period and the vessel is returned to its owner in as good condition as when
chartered, ordinary wear and tear excepted.
It may be noted that the United States can give protection equivalent to
Section Four of the Bill by making loans from the Construction Loan Fund
equal to 50 per cent of the cost of vessels built in the shipyards of the
United States for the foreign trade, without interest, and payable in twenty
equal annual installments.
President Coolidge Requests that Fleet Corporation Conduct
Negotiations for Sale of Ships
Nautical Gazette, 20 June, 1925.— Although the Shipping Board has
displayed greater activity within the past six months in selling govern-
ment tonnage, there have been divisions among the members of the Board
as to the policy to be pursued in the disposition of its ships. The split
in the Board on the sale of the five President liners to R. Stanley Dollar
is still fresh in the minds of the American people, and more recently the


  p. 1535 (#453)                      #

1925)
1535
Professional Notes
commissioners have been at loggerheads over Chairman O'Connor's in-
dividual efforts to interest Henry Ford in the Government's laid-up ships.
Because the Board does not seem to be able to agree whenever any pro-
posal for the purchase of vessels comes before it, and because it is desirable
that prospective purchasers of government tonnage be afforded every
facility in their negotiations, President Coolidge has taken a hand in the
matter. He has addressed a letter to the Board requesting that the question
of the sales of ships should be left with Admiral Palmer, president of the
Fleet Corporation, that he be given authority to conduct negotiations for
the disposition of tonnage and that the Board keep out of the picture until
the time comes for it to give its final sanction to the deal.
President Coolidge began his letter by referring to revived interest in
the purchase of government ships, and remarked about the difficulties in-
volved in the negotiations of sales contracts.
"I have the strong feeling,” he said, "that such complex negotiations
cannot be competently carried out by the often independent discussions by
buyers with the several members of the Shipping Board. Furthermore,
there is an unwillingness on the part of some of our shipping men to enter
such an involved scene of negotiations.
“In order that we should make a vigorous attempt to carry out the
purpose of the Merchant Marine Act—that is, the disposal of the merchant
marine into private hands-on equitable terms, it seems to me vital that
these negotiations should be placed in one single hand, reserving to the
Shipping Board the final voice in the acceptance or rejection of the
specific contract.
"I would like to suggest to the Board that all negotiations of every
character for the disposal of ships or lines should rest in the hands of
Admiral Palmer, that the members of the Board should refuse to see or
discuss these questions with any individual during the course of such ne-
gotiations; that Admiral Palmer should be authorized to sign contracts
subject to the approval of the board. The Board will then be in a posi-
tion to exercise its proper function in the acceptance or rejection of
the contracts.
"I am convinced that better terms will be secured for the government
and more progress in carrying out the intent of the act than can be
accomplished under the present basis of organization."
It was stated officially at the White House that fear lest difficulties
encountered by prospective purchasers might hamper the disposal of govern-
ment merchant tonnage induced President Coolidge to suggest to the Ship-
ping Board that it turn over to the Emergency Fleet Corporation all
functions connected with the negotiation of ship sales.
That the board leave to the Fleet Corporation the handling of negotia-
tions is as far as the suggestion in the President's letter to the Shipping
Board goes, White House spokesmen added. No other consideration en-
tered into the President's action in proffering his suggestion. It was
indicated that President Coolidge was not dissatisfied with any of the ship
sales recently consummated by the Board and that past transactions had no
connection with the proposal to let President Palmer of the Fleet Corpora-
tion conduct ship sales negotiations in the future.
Mr. Coolidge took action, spokesmen reported, because it was being
constantly called to his attention that people desiring to buy government
vessels were becoming discouraged because of the uncertainty as to whom
they should apply in dealing with a board of seven members.
Purchasers want some one person with whom they can negotiate in-
stead of a board of seven members. Thus, the President was moved to
make his suggestion simply for the convenience of possible buyers.


  p. 1536 (#454)                      #

1536
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Spokesmen said that it was the President's idea that Mr. Palmer would
conduct sales negotiations up to the point where a contract of sale could
be presented to the Board for its approval and then the matter would
rest with the Board.
The principal objection voiced to the suggestion made by the President
in the letter to Chairman T. V. O'Connor was that a question of policy is
involved in the sale of services and that the Board could not pass on that
question without having direct contact with prospective purchasers of es-
tablished services. It was pointed out that the Board has to decide whether
or not the purchaser will maintain the established service and that direct
control between the Board and bidders is desirable. Individual ship sales,
not related to established services, have been and are being handled as
the President suggested, the Board merely approving or rejecting sales
negotiated by the Fleet Corporation.
In official circles the President's action is being taken as indicating that
the abolition of the Shipping Board will be included in the Administra-
tion's program for shipping legislation at the next session of Congress and
that President Coolidge is coming round to the view that the merchant
marine problem can best be solved by the concentration of operating func-
tion in the Emergency Fleet Corporation as an independent agency, until
liquidation can be accomplished, and the incorporation of the regulatory
activities of the Shipping Board in the Commerce Department to be di-
rected by an Under Secretary of Merchant Marine.
The President, it is maintained, by stepping into the ship sales situation
at the Board has served notice that he has abandoned the "hands off"
policy which he has observed since the Board's last reported delegation to
the Fleet Corporation of full authority over the fleet.
It is asserted that the President has become more and more dissatisfied
with the state of affairs in the Shipping Board and the difficulty of holding
an independent agency within the lines of administration policies, whereas
the incorporation of the functions of the Board into a department of the
government, under a head responsible to the White House, would greatly
simplify matters.
Abolition of the Shipping Board could be more easily accomplished than
the reorganization of that body since the system of regional representation
now in vogue would make it almost impossible to reduce the membership.
Retention of the Emergency Fleet Corporation would be made necessary
by the fact that its actual function is liquidation and that the operation of
the merchant fleet pending liquidation could not properly come within the
scope of the duties of any of the existing departments.
The suggestion that the functions of the Shipping Board be transferred
to the Department of Commerce met with some opposition in local ship-
ping circles. Captain C. A. McAllister, vice president of the American
Bureau of Shipping, said:
"It would be a fatal mistake to transfer the operation of the govern-
ment ships to the Department of Commerce. It would mean the end of
all constructive effort in behalf of the American merchant marine. The
Shipping Board, with all its shortcomings, is devoting its attention speci-
fically to the interests of the merchant marine. This is a function which
could not be performed by a subordinate of any government department.
"In my opinion, it would be far better to establish a department of
transportation having to do solely with all means of transportation, in-
cluding railroads, airways and shipping, with representation in the Cabinet.
Shipping is just as important to the people of the country as the railroads,
and far too important to be put under control of a bureau of an already
overloaded department."


  p. 1537 (#455)                      #

1925]
1537
Professional Notes
Problems Confronting American Ships in Foreign Trade
By Leigh C. Palmer, President, Fleet Corporation, Nautical Gazette,
30 May, 1925.–Our merchant fleet comprises two main divisions; that
which is employed in coastwise or domestic trade and that which is engaged
in foreign trade. The former is fully protected by law from the competition
of foreign ships and therefore is on a safe basis similar to that of domestic
industries protected by tariff laws. The latter, that employed in foreign
trade, is entirely unprotected by the government, economically, and is
subject to the keenest competition in a free and open world market.
The coastwise merchant marine may be dismissed from present con-
sideration with the observation that it is a vitally important factor of
our national defense as well as of our domestic transportation system and
must continue to receive the full protection of our Government against the
possible encroachment of cheap foreign ships and cheap labor.
It is our merchant marine in overseas trade that presents our real prob-
lems-problems which apparently are not much nearer a solution today
than they were five or six years ago when our war-created fleet came into
being. But it is these problems that must be solved if the national de-
mand for an adequate and permanent merchant marine is to be satisfied.
And the solution must come soon if we are to avoid further great loss in
public funds and deteriorated ships.
Of the total American tonnage, except tankers, employed in foreign
trade, about 80 per cent is government-owned, for which reason, doubtless,
careless speakers frequently refer to the government fleet as the merchant
marine. As a matter of fact, if the coastwise fleet be taken into con-
sideration, the government-owned portion of the active merchant marine
is only about 40 per cent of the whole. However, the government-owned
fleet may properly be regarded as the controlling element in our merchant
marine in foreign trade and the future of the merchant marine will depend
very largely upon how we shall employ, administer and ultimately dispose
of this fact.
The Fleet Corporation is operating this fleet on the trade routes laid
down to parallel foreign competitors. While there may properly be differ-
ences of opinion as to the necessity of maintaining some of the routes or as
to the details of services on this or that route, it may be said that, on the
whole, the present services conform to American foreign trade require-
ments, which are, first, that our people shall be assured of free and direct
access to all important foreign markets, and second, that our commerce
shall be reasonably protected against discriminatory trade practices and
unnecessarily high freight rates.
Unquestionably, we are maintaining more comprehensive services on
some of the routes than the bare operating results would appear to justify,
but here we must discriminate between the large question of protection of
national trade interests and the less important, though more tangible, one
of ship earnings or losses. Obviously, it is quite impossible to appraise
in terms of dollars the benefits derived from our fleet in the way of in-
creased and improved transportation facilities and their general effects
on our industries and trade, while it is easy to show what these general
benefits have cost us in the way of fleet operating losses.
I think I may safely say that the services at present maintained by the
government are not far different in extent and character from those that
would be maintained by efficient foreign operators if ours were withdrawn
except that we are serving more ports on some of the routes than the trade
warrants. But while our services are appropriate to the trade generally,
they are costing us too much in comparison with those of our competitors.


  p. 1538 (#456)                      #

1538
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
This brings us to the two principal points of our problem: first, that
American ships are handicapped by a heavy differential in costs, and second,
that American operators are more or less at a disadvantage in being new-
comers into the international shipping game. As for the first point, the
differential can be readily adjusted, at least approximately, as it arises for
the most part from our higher shipbuilding costs, higher wages and other
items of cost in which the price of labor is a factor. This differential, which
for convenience may be called the tangible differential, approximately re-
flects the difference between the price scale, or the standard of living, here
and abroad.
Another, which may be called the intangible differential, arises from
any of the thousand and one things which keep the operator from getting the
cargo and the revenue requisite to success and is also dependent on short-
comings in operating efficiency. He might be highly efficient so far as the
physical operation of ships is concerned and able to keep his expenses low,
but if he is new in the field and lacks knowledge of the intricacies of the
trade, if he lacks efficient traffic agencies at home or abroad, if his reputa-
tion for reliability and good service has not been established, if he lacks
advantageous trade connections, he will not get the necessary cargo and
revenue.
So far as the government-owned fleet is concerned, the intangible dif-
ferential may be diminished very considerably if and when we are able to
turn our lines to private ownership, and thereafter the responsibility and the
careful husbanding that inheres in personal ownership will gradually make
the lines more and more efficient and place them on an even footing
with their foreign competitors. In short, the government should dispose
of its fleet to private ownership as soon as possible without sacrificing
the national interests, not merely for the sake of the direct economies which
would result but for the far more important purpose of placing the merchant
marine on an efficient and permanent basis.
That part of the privately owned merchant marine which is engaged in
overseas trade is probably breaking even, or possibly making a profit in
spite of the handicaps of greater first costs and fixed charges, higher wage
scale, duty on repairs made abroad, and other disadvantages as compared
with foreign competitors.
This, however, does not apply to any great number of vessels in foreign
trade and could not properly be used as an argument that aid is not neces-
sary to overcome the differential. It applies to a few so-called industrial
carriers who, in addition to basic cargoes from home ports, are able through
their world-wide business connections and through their own requirements
for raw products from abroad and through their business-like cooperation
in giving foreign competitors some of their outgoing business, to get good
cargoes homeward as well as outward. Such organizations are the nucleus
of the privately owned American merchant marine, and if our ships could be
sold into like capable hands the future of the merchant marine would be
assured.
The greater part of the overseas merchant marine, that part which is
owned by the government and operated through managing agents, is losing
heavily though the average losses are much less than they were a year
ago. I think it is well to try to clear the atmosphere and show just why
we are losing money while our foreign competitors and private American
operators are breaking even or making small profits. We can place on
one side those losses for which our own people are responsible and which
can be corrected, and on the other side those which are beyond the power
of our operators to remedy. For these losses beyond the operators' power
to remedy, some kind of assistance will have to be given if the merchant


  p. 1539 (#457)                      #

1925]
1539
Professional Notes
marine is to be on an equal competitive basis with foreigners; unless it is
on an equal competitive basis, it cannot endure. The losses for which the
operators are responsible can be reduced and ultimately avoided almost en-
tirely through increased experience together with strict economy-in other
words, high efficiency. I am not recommending at this time any particular
kind of assistance; that is a matter open to wide differences of opinion. But
I wish to show just where the differences exist between our own and for-
eign operating results.
I have already referred to tangible and intangible differentials. The
tangible handicaps are higher fixed charges covering interest, depreciation
and insurance, which are due directly to the higher cost of ship construc-
tion in America; higher crew cost, that is, wages and subsistence, due
to the higher cost of labor and the higher scale of living in our country;
and the higher cost of repairs and of administration due to the higher price
level of rents, service and personnel.
The handicap of high fixed charges, however, is almost negligible at the
present time for the reason that ship values the world over have been
marked down to about a common level; but it will become of great im-
portance when it becomes necessary for American lines to replace existing
tonnage with new and improved vessels. Vessels built in American ship-
yards cost approximately 25 per cent more than similar vessels built in Great
Britain, and in this connection it is interesting to note that British vessels
in turn are now costing considerably more than vessels built in Germany
and some other European countries. Since interest, depreciation and in-
surance are proportional to vessel values, and as these charges combined
amount to about 15 per cent per annum, it will be realized that our higher
fixed charges on new vessels will be a very serious handicap.
Our wage costs are considerably higher than the British and nearly 100
per cent more than those of certain other countries.
Our higher cost of administration, commonly referred to as overhead, is
not easily evaluated since conditions vary greatly among American organ-
izations and, of course, foreign costs are difficult to ascertain, but it is
probable that the difference is nearly proportional to the difference in the
general price levels here and abroad.
To give concrete form to these items, we may assume that the average
results of a certain government-controlled line shows an operating loss of
$15,000 per voyage while a foreign line of similar ships in the same trade
is breaking even. The tangible differential against our ships will be as-
sumed to comprise the following items :
Higher wages
........$3,400
Higher cost of food, stores and equipment ............ 1,600
Higher cost of repairs ...........
...... 1,500
Higher administrative expense ...
..
1,200
Total
..........$7,700
If the foreign ships are breaking even while ours are losing $15,000, and
if the tangible differential accounts for only $7,700 of this, the remaining
$7,300 is the intangible differential attribute to more efficient operation of
the foreign line as compared with our government-controlled line.
This tangible differential may include:
Inexperience or inefficiency of the operator and his personnel, including
ships' crews, which is reflected in insufficient revenue, and in high operating
costs in general.
Inadequate traffic organization at home and abroad and consequent in-
ability to secure a due share of the traffic.


  p. 1540 (#458)                      #

1540
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Lack of basic cargo, due to a lack of favorable business connections at
home and abroad.
Comparative absence of the favoring spirit or good will, due to recent
appearance in the field; unproved reliability, or lack of established repu-
tation; and the more or less common view held by shippers that the service
is of an emergency or temporary character.
Unfavorable or discriminatory United States laws.
Covering more ports than economic conditions justify.
On this assumption it is seen that about half of the present differential
between our own and foreign operating costs is attributable to intangibles
which can be corrected in large part or abolished, and that the other half
represents the actual excess cost of our operation over that of competing
foreign vessels. By elimination of uneconomic ports and better turn-around
a private American operator might reduce the tangible differential by
one-third.
Certain private American lines apparently are operating their vessels
in overseas trade at a profit, or at least without loss. They probably
are not handicapped by the above-mentioned intangible differentials; in other
words, they have highly efficient organizations. They have, however, the
tangible differential of high wages, and so forth, to contend with, and no
doubt are able to carry that differential by reason of their favorable and ex-
clusive relations with other interests which furnish profitable cargoes.
With high-priced ships and labor we cannot expect to compete success-
fully with cheap ships and cheap labor on all the ocean highways; but
there are some routes on which American ships are not seriously handi-
capped by higher operating costs and in which American lines with ad-
vantageous industrial and shipping connections might, and probably will, be
able to maintain themselves against any competition. Indeed, the best
prospects for the further development of our merchant marine on the over-
sea routes appear to lie in the establishment of lines by strong industrial
concerns for the carriage of their own supplies and products and for com-
mon service. Another prospect lies in our railroads becoming interested in
extending their transportation systems to foreign shores through ownership
of, or affiliation with, steamship lines. Obviously, a line which is assured
basic cargoes for its vessels is in a far more favorable position than one
which has to compete for every ton of cargo it gets.
The Fleet Corporation is following consistently the President's well-
known policy of efficient economy in public expenditures. We have greatly
curtained our operating losses during the past year. We shall not be
satisfied as long as our losses are greater than those which can properly
be accounted for as the unavoidable differential between the cost of public
and private American operation of the necessary services.
In the matter of administrative expenses, the annual payroll has been
reduced during the last four months more than a million dollars through
the elimination of unnecessary personnel. However, the prospect for
the greatest improvement lies in the further reduction of vessel operating
expense and the building up of revenues. While the recent decrease in
yearly losses is a great stride forward, it is only a start toward placing
the government fleet on a near-business basis and making it possible
eventually to dispose of our lines to private owners as contemplated by
the Merchant Marine Act.
During the last sixteen months we have been clearing ground. We have
reduced our losses from $50,000,000 to $36,000,000 a year, although handling
the same amount of business and in July two months from today, we will
be operating at a loss of but $28,000,000 a year.
I don't want to mislead myself nor do I want to mislead anyone else into
the idea of thinking that the reduction in the cost of operating the Fleet


  p. 1541 (#459)                      #

1925)
1541
Professional Notes
Corporation, say from $50,000,000 down to $28,000,000, bear any real rela-
tion to the advance that is being made toward solving our merchant marine
problems. Although this very great reduction in losses, $22,000,000 out of
$50,000,000, will have great weight in getting our services on a more busi-
ness like basis, yet we must not for a moment believe that the progress
toward solving the problems of the merchant marine is proportional to these
figures. The increase in efficiency presented by these figures is of value in
clearing the ground so that the real vital problems of how we are going
to keep the merchant marine on the seas can be taken up. The thought
I want to convey is that in spite of all the increased economy and efficiency
of the Fleet Corporation in the last sixteen months, no real constructive
measure has been adopted by the country to keep our merchant flag per-
manently on the sea.
There is serious doubt as to whether the subsidy principle can be reha-
bilitated in our country. But it has been suggested that while a general, or
blanket, aid applicable to all routes regardless of local or peculiar condi-
tions might be unacceptable, special assistance for the establishment and
maintenance of particular services might well be regarded as proper and
acceptable. For example, if to further a national policy, it were desired
to bring our country into closer relationship with another through im-
proved communication and transportation facilities and give our producers,
exporters and importers an oportunity to develop trade in a new field, it
might be well that public opinion would find it desirable to subsidize a line
that would provide the desired service. The mail subvention or other
form of subsidy has been applied by practically all great maritime powers
for such special purposes.
Usually this form of government aid has been identified with matters
of national defense, the purpose being in part the creation of vessels of
a type desired for war purposes. It has not been applied to cargo vessels
to any considerable extent; but there is no reason why it should not be so
applied if a cargo service is needed to meet a particular national trade
necessity.
Defense of Merchant Ships in A Future War
Journal of the Royal United Service Institution, May, 1925.—In the
various Service publications for the past several years much has been
written about the future of the fighting Services on land and sea, and in
the air, but little attention seems to be paid to the defense of our merchant
ships in another war. Before going deeper into this subject, I would remind
the reader that the fighting Services depend entirely upon these ships for
their maintenance in consumable stores and for sea transport of every
description.
One of the greatest lessons potential enemies can have learnt from the
history of the last war is that a speedy destruction of our merchant ships
would ensure victory over the British Empire. Unlike the main fighting
feet of the Royal Navy, merchant ships must keep the seas, day after
day, in order to maintain both the civil population and the fighting forces.
In view of the great advance of air warfare the system of convoys at
sea, as practiced in the late war, will have to be improved upon. The
offensively armed escort will, in fact, have to be able to meet air attacks
in addition to fighting surface and underwater craft. Merchant ships,
too, will have to be able to defend themselves against (a) underwater
attack, (b) aerial attack, (c) gas attack. It is also suggested that they
should be trained to combine and act together so as to make full use of
their limited primary armament against a single raider. The three or
four simple formations required to place the ships in such order as to


  p. 1542 (#460)                      #

1542
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
bring their most effective fire to bear on the enemy could be learned by
any mariner in a few hours.
The young officers who were watchkeepers in our convoys in 1916-18
will most probably be ship masters in the next war, so that the art of
handling ships in unison and station keeping will no longer be looked upon
as a sort of black magic.
The masters and mates of our merchant ships should be taught in peace
how to prepare their ships for time of war. The measures to be taken
should be included in the curriculum of the marine schools and training
establishments in general.
If officers were trained in this way there would be less danger of a
repetition of many regrettable losses which occured in 1914-18.
The Board of Trade could issue printed instructions to the local marine
board, who in turn could inform the navigation schools at the various
ports; thus the aspirants for a board of trade certificate would have at
least a working knowledge of how to safeguard their ships in wartime.
With regard to the use of the defensive armament of merchant ships,
I have before me a letter, written in September, 1913, dealing with the
subject of training merchant service officers in the use of light guns
(3-pdr. to 6-in.). In the letter it was suggested to make the board of
trade certificate provisional until the officer had qualified in elementary
gunnery knowledge. The treasury was, I think, the stumbling-block, and
nothing happened until the war came-in fact, till 1915 and onwards.
The result was merchant ships were manned by a few half-trained gun-
layers and breach-workers, and the other members of the gun's crew
were picked up from the ship's personnel, who probably had never seen
the type of gun they were called upon to work, and yet might have to
deal with an enemy within four hours of clearing the dock gates.
The training of officers in the use of merchant ships' armaments should
not be neglected in peace time. It could be a voluntary nature and might
be carried out by the instructors of the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve
who are stationed in all our great ports.
Shipping companies would, I think, cooperate in the scheme by giving
preference to the young men who are in possession of certificates of knowl.
edge of armaments by sending them to defensively armed ships.
Turning to questions of matériel, in order to provide for future con-
tingencies, before the perils of war are upon us, I suggest the following
should be done:
1. Give all merchant ships of from 2,500 to 6,000 tons net one anti-
aircraft gun; this gun to be so mounted that it could be used either for
high angle or as part of the ship's ordinary armament, to which it should
be an addition.
2. Ships of over 6,000 tons net to have an additional armament of two
H.A, guns similarly mounted.
3. Gas masks to be supplied to every member of all merchant ships'
complements.
With regard to the latter, the obsolete pattern of gas mask could be used
for the protection of mercantile personnel, with the exception of the people
who are called upon to perform hard physical labor on the upper deck, or
in the stokehold of coal-burning ships. For the latter the improved pattern
is necessary, as men cannot do heavy work efficiently in the older pattern
of mask.
The care and maintenance of anti-gas equipment for the Mercantile
Marine in peace time is a subject which calls for the close cooperation of
the Admiralty and the shipping companies throughout the Empire.


  p. 1543 (#461)                      #

19251
1543
Professional Notes
It is a bold man who will say gas attack at sea from aircraft is a most
unlikely method of attacking our merchant shipping. In the opinion of the
present writer the day is near when chemists and research workers will
produce a gas which can be controlled and regulated according to the
barometer and thermometer readings.
It is not unlikely that, within the next decade, it will be possible for an
enemy to spread a high concentration of gas at a selected level above the
water and distributed over, perhaps, ten square miles of sea. A convoy
harassed on both flanks by a flight of aircraft may be driven into this in-
fected area, when an untrained and unprotected crew will soon be out of
action. On the other hand, a ship which is manned and armed with trained
men and more or less adequate weapons of offence and defence could at
least have more than an equal chance of destroying (not merely evading)
the enemy.
Up to a hundred twenty years ago, all merchant ships were, for their
day, well armed and able to look after themselves. It would be well if we
reverted to the practice of our forebears in this respect and placed our
"common carriers," upon whom the existence of our Empire depends in
peace and war, in a position to defend themselves against the enemy. At
present we are being lulled into a false sense of security by writers of
pretty poems about the sea and pacifists who talk of there being no more
war, until we shall find, when the time comes, that our merchant ships are
just about as capable of defending themselves against these new forms of
attack as sitting ducks on a Norfolk Broad are against the punt gunner.
ENGINEERING
Rival Methods of Ship Propulsion
Engineering, 12 June, 1925.-In a multitude of counselors there may
perchance be wisdom, but there is certainly confusion, so that the
plain man perplexed by opposing opinions is prone to pursue the prudent
policy of Mr. Pickwick at Eatonswill, and to join in the shouts of the largest
mob. There are, in fact, fashions in engineering, as well as in feminine
modes. The building of the Forth Bridge set every structural engineer
talking of cantilevers, with the result that a number of bridges were erected
on this system which might better have been built to other plans. The
successful construction of the City of South London Tube similarly led
to the unnecessary use of shields for other tunnels, and there is a distinct
possibility that the great attention now being paid to the internal combustion
marine engine, may give rise to the adoption of the type in instances where
the superiority really lies with steam. Of course, there are cases in
which one or another of the competing systems has such marked advantages.
that rivalry is impossible. The steam launch cannot compete with the high-
speed motor launch, nor is the internal combustion engine suitable for cross-
channel packets. In the navy, again, it would have been impossible to drive
the Hood with internal combustion engines, and, in fact, in all vessels requir-
ing very large powers, the internal combustion engine is as out of place as it
is in large land power stations. Moreover, in naval service, the "elasticity"
of steam has some advantages. At the battle of the Falkland Islands, it
will be remembered that the steam-driven Kent completely beat her trial
trip record. This feat was the more remarkable in that the Kent had
reciprocating engines, which have less flexibility than the steam turbine.
In the merchant service, there is not the same demand for flexibility,
and the low overload capacity of the Diesel engine is here of but minor
importance, while its unquestionable superiority in thermal efficiency is a
strong argument in favor of its extended use. The question is, however,
by no means so simple as is sometimes assumed. In a letter to the Times
Lord Bearsted, for example, quotes a Birmingham professor as responsible


  p. 1544 (#462)                      #

1544
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
for the statement that "the oil engine will remain the most economical type
of heat engine in existence." Such a remark if not attributed to confusion
of thought, is at least open to the charge of carelessness of expression.
It is by no means established that the internal combustion marine engine
is the most economical of heat engines, and, in fact, Sir Charles Parsons
has declared himself ready to guarantee as high an economy with steam
as the best recorded with the marine Diesel Engine.
In short, the term economy and efficiency cannot be regarded as synony-
mous. In efficiency no heat engine can even begin to compare with an
electric motor taking its current from a primary battery. The chemical
energy of the "fuel" consumed in the latter can be converted into useful
work with less than 5 per cent of loss, while with the Diesel engine, high
as its efficiency is, the loss is fully 60 per cent. Nevertheless, although the
suggested combination of battery and electric motor is highly efficient, it is
by no means economical. The cost of the fuel has to be considered, in
addition to the efficiency with which it can be converted into useful energy,
and the protagonists of steam maintain that with current prices of Diesel
oil and fuel oil, power can be obtained with steam at a cost not greater
than if it were generated by Diesel engines.
In a pamphlet recently published, the Parsons' Marine Steam Turbine
Company give some further details of the plant which Sir Charles Parsons
had apparently in mind when taking part in the recent discussion at the
Institution of Naval Architects-a debate, by the by, in which little share
was taken by the advocates of the Diesel engine. The proposals of the
Parsons' Marine Steam Turbine Company have reference to a 14-knot
vessel, engaged on a voyage of 6,000 miles, and fitted with turbines generat-
ing 5,000 shaft horsepower.
A steam pressure of 500 lbs. per square inch is specified, combined
with superheating to 700° F., water tube boilers being used. Several boiler
makers it may be observed, are prepared to guarantee the performance of
boilers of this type at the pressure and temperature named. There would be
three turbines in series, of which the high pressure is designed to run at
5,000 r.p.m., the intermediate at 3,000, and the low pressure at 1,700 r.p.m.
These speeds would be reduced by double-reduction gearing to 90 r.p.m.
at the propeller shaft. A total consumption for all purposes of 0.66 lbs. of
oil per shaft horsepower is guaranteed, and it must be remembered in this
connection, that the guarantees of Sir Charles Parsons commonly hold
good; a rule which, unfortunately, is not observed by all turbine builders.
One notorious Continental firm, for example, is reported to have been 10
per cent to 14 per cent worse than its guarantees in the case of one very
large plant erected by them since the war. The 0.66 lbs. of oil will, it is
claimed, cost no more than the 0.45 lbs. which would be taken "for all
purposes," by a corresponding Diesel engine plant, and, moreover, the steam
plant would have the option of using coal, the guarantee for which "for all
purposes” is 0.98 lbs. per shaft horsepower.
These figures show how far marine engineers have of late years lagged
behind in the development of steam-driven plants. In the past it was the
marine engineer who was mainly responsible for the popularisation of triple
expansion engines and of what used to be considered high-pressure steam.
This was probably due to the fact that powers at sea ruled larger than on
land, and a more skilled engine-room staff was employed at sea than was
customary in land service. Today conditions are reversed, 5,000 h.p. repre-
sents a fair-sized marine installation, while a unit of this output would
be regarded as small in a land power station.
The outcome of the contest between the two rival methods of ship pro-
pulsion will, on the one hand, turn upon the possibility of improving the


  p. 1545 (#463)                      #

1925]
1545
Professional Notes
thermal efficiency of the steam plant and on the other the possibility of
reducing the cost and weight of Diesel machinery. As matters stand, the
best types of turbine can hardly be improved mechanically, but its average
thermal efficiency at sea can certainly be considerably increased. On the
other hand, there seems little prospect of any material increase in the
thermal efficiency of the Diesel engine, but its weight and cost ought to
be capable of reduction. This may involve an increase in rotational speeds,
and it is possible that this may revive some of the engine-room troubles
which vanished on the introduction of the turbine. Destroyer trials were
a serious anxiety to the builders of reciprocating engines, and there were
several disastrous accidents from connecting rod fractures. No doubt a
smash of this kind would be a much less serious matter with a Diesel
engine than it was with steam, where the whole engine room complement ran
the risk of being scalded to death. Nevertheless, it cannot be denied that
high speed reciprocating machinery is more subject to fracture than that in
which the motion is purely rotary, and considerable circumspection will be
required in improving the Diesel engine along this line of advance. No
doubt the difficulties can be overcome, and it is not a little extraordinary
that certain motor bicycle and small motor car engines attain 3,000 r.p.m.-
a speed which at the beginning of the century was considered too high for
turbines of more than some 500 kw. rating.
From the purely academic standpoint, there is certainly something very
attractive in the idea of a prime mover complete in itself. With steam
the fuel is burnt in one component of the plant, and the useful work pro-
duced in another, while in the internal combustion engine the conversion
of the chemical energy of the fuel into power is effected in a single unit.
Short cuts of this kind are alluring, but experience has shown that in
many departments of industry the short cut is not always preferable to the
longer way round. In the Catalan forge, iron was made directly from the
ore, but no great development of iron and steel manufacture was possible
until a much more complicated method of reduction was elaborated, and this
experience has been parallel in other trades. Simple and direct processes
generally imply the use of "raw materials” of somewhat exceptional quality,
and though builders often claim that the Diesel engine can be run on
indifferent oils, these are not in favor with users. In this lies the possibility
of the successful competition of steam with the marine Diesel engine, and
the advantage which it has in this regard may be increased if certain modern
methods of using coal be extended to sea service. At one American power
station it is reported that the boiler room is furnished like an office. All
grime and dust are excluded, and the coal is handled and used with as
little trouble or nuisance as oil, the boiler room crew being reduced to a
mere skeleton of what was formerly required.
It is on this question of fuel costs, direct and indirect, that the contest
for supremacy will ultimately turn, and on this head the last word on behalf
of steam has still to be said. In the matter of reliability, the Diesel engine
appears now to be satisfactory. The testimony in this respect of Mr. Ruck-
Keene, Chief Engineer-Surveyor of Lloyds, given in the discussion at the
Institution of Naval Architects, may fairly be regarded as authoritative.
He declared that in the actual operation of Diesel ships the adjustments
which had to be made to the propelling plant were far fewer than was the
case with steam.
Both the rival types of prime mover are handicapped by the demand of
the propeller for a low rate of revolution, and any considerable diminution
in the weight of the Diesel engine would probably involve such an increase
in the rotational speed as to render necessary the introduction of gearing
between the crank shaft and the propeller shaft.


  p. 1546 (#464)                      #

1546
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
MISCELLANEOUS
Limitations of Modern Sea War
By Sir Herbert Russell, Naval and Military Record, 27 May, 1925. -
The recent death of Admiral-of-the-Fleet Sir Doveton Sturdee naturally
evoked general reference to the victor of the Falklands," and his place in
naval history will always be earmarked by that brilliant achievement. But,
it produced singularly little evidence of any realization of the fact that
this was the one—and perhaps the only one-really great strategical feat of
the British Navy during the Great War. In saying this, let me hasten to
add a disclaimer of any suggestion that the strategical ability of the British
Navy gave any manifestation of failure. It was simply that the modern
conditions of sea warfare denied to it opportunity for displaying itself.
Granted that the original disposition of the fleet to its war station was a
step of first-rate strategical skill, when this had been accomplished the naval
war, in its major dimensions, was virtually reduced to stalemate.
It is certainly legitimate to class the drive into Heligoland Bight and the
Battle of the Doggerbank as operations of a strategical order, but I cannot
believe that any competent student of war would admit either to be in
the category of great strategical achievements.
The battle off the Falklands certainly comes within the scope of this
definition. It was a great conception, and conception is the very essence of
strategy. With unerring sagacity it assumed the next move on the part
of the enemy after his decisive success off Cape Coromel, and calculated
to a nicety how to counter that move. The result was a success of very
real material importance, and of immense moral and political value. Thus
the word strategy was exemplified in its fullest and widest application. Of
course, from the moment that Admiral Von Spee's ships came within sight
of Port Stanley the strategical aspect was finished and the tactical phase
began. The German Admiral, outclassed in every combatant point, showed
his own tactical skill in the course that he took. So long as he was able
to continue fighting his one endeavor was to close the range. If he could
only bring his 8-inch batteries within effective striking distance of his
attackers, the tremendous advantage of their 12-inch guns might in a con-
siderable measure be neutralized. The story of the conflict is too familiar
to bear retelling, but it will always remain a very notable action as a
perfect example of the dual qualities or strategy and tactics.
The only strategical element about the Battle of Jutland lay in the fact
that the grand fleet was permanently posted in such a commanding position
as to enable it to force action in the event of the high seas fleet venturing
any distance from its base. But the fight was not the result of any definite
preconception. The battle cruiser squadrons were not sent to sea in any
expectation of drawing Admiral Sheer out of the Jade. Admiral Jellicoe
had worked out various alternative tactical plans to be followed in the event
of a general action according to the circumstances in which the clash might
take place, but he never evolved any strategical scheme for attempting to
force an issue.
Indeed, as far as we know, Admiral Jellicoe opposed (and probably
rightly so) such strategical schemes as were proposed for the employment
of the grand feet. Lord Fisher had a great idea of a "Baltic gamble" which
was entily strategical. It was a conception fraught with unlimited possi-
bilities, but likewise beset too much with the element of a gamble to
commend itself to a less imaginative and more prudent commander. Fisher
was a man of obsessions, who stood for the doctrine of not counting risks.
To have launched a sufficient force into the Baltic to justify expectation
of decisive results would have been to unchain the high seas feet, which


  p. 1547 (#465)                      #

1925)
1547
Professional Notes
might have followed the grand fleet through the Great Belt-or might have
done something unexpected and very much more mischievous.
The answer to the lack of strategical opportunity during the Great War
is that the art of strategy consists in making opportunity. But this is a
species of textbook precept which calls for a good deal of qualification.
There are more ways than one of catching a sdre, but if the hare goes to
ground behind barbed wire and man-traps, then, as Mrs. Glass implies, the
soup must go unmade. Strategy dictates that, in these conditions, it is
wiser to surround the hare and keep him where he is than to run the in-
calculable risk of digging him out, for negative strategy may be even
greater than positive strategy, as Wellington taught the French at Torres
Vedras.
Strategy made its opportunity at the Falkland Islands, because the
opportunity was there to be made, but in view of the experiences of the
naval war it is scarcely surprising to find a plea for a new and wider
definition of the word than is embraced in its traditional acceptance. This
plea has but one defect to my mind; it threatens to complicate the study
of war itself. It is rather like demanding that a mathematical student, who
is set to work out the cubic dimensions of a body, shall likewise know all
about the matter of which that body is composed.
Admiral Sir Reginald Custance, in his masterly exposition of A Study
of War, suggests that lack of a sufficiently wide perception of the meaning
of strategy is responsible for some confusion of thought in the writings of
Mahan. He quotes, by way of example, the doctrine laid down by Mahan
that “The aim of naval strategy is to get command of the sea. ... which
means control of communications”; and he objects that in this the political
object only is indicated-security and the control of communications. Sir
Reginald Custance argues that the military aim finds no place in this
definition of strategy; neither the enemy fleet nor the idea of decision by
battle are referred to.
But, is it not possible that Mahan presupposes the military aim to have
been accomplished in the realization of the conditions he implies? He says
that the aim of naval strategy is to get command of the sea and control of
communications. Surely this aim can never be accomplished so long as the
enemy fleet remains undefeated? Can it be maintained that we succeeded in
establishing command of the sea or control of communications throughout
the Great War? All strategical conception was baffled by the elusiveness
of modern conditions of naval warfare, and in consequence the military aim
remained unaccomplished. This being so, Mahan's definition of strategy
was never attained. With profound respect, I still remain to be convinced
that it is a faulty definition on this account, or that it shows any confusion
of ideas.
On the other hand, the student of war who takes Mahan's interpretation
of strategy as sufficiently comprehensive clears his mental vision to specific
perception. He is dealing with naval war. He need not refer at all to the
polital atmosphere or the political aspect in order to master the military
aim.
Politics certainly enter directly into strategy when the politicians butt-in
upon the military conception. Admiral Sir Berkeley Milne was a victim
of a striking example of this, and Mr. Churchill's conflicting anxieties not
to touch the susceptibilities of Italy, and at the same time nof, to let the
Goeben and Breslau escape resulted, as such interference inevi:ably must,
in their escaping quite comfortably, and giving Mr. Churchill still bigger
opportunities for interference by plunging us into war with Turkey.
It is merely admitting the obvious to say there could be no military
strategy without the political aim, because war is simply the attempt to


  p. 1548 (#466)                      #

1548
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
enforce the political aim. But the strategy of war begins when the
diplomacy of politics has failed. Napoleon was a consumerate strategist
and a great politician; the genius which made the one ensured the other,
but when we study the story of Austerlitz or Marengo we are studying
strategy in its heretofore fully accepted meaning, and the colossal ambition
which led up to these battles has no more to do with the actual strategy of
the battles than the Potsdam heroics of the ex-Kaiser had to do with the
breakaway of the German fleet at Jutland.
Will the Capital Ship Pass?
By Sir Herbert Russell, Naval and Military Record, 20 June, 1925.-
To lay down, however tentatively, any precept which seems to violate an
immemorial principle is naturally to challenge dissent. Loyalty to tradition
is an admirable quality, but occasionally it is apt to be a little unreasoning.
The attitude of the Admiralty towards the adoption of steam and iron
is a classic example. I confess to sympathy in that spirit of dogged con-
servatism. I would rather look upon a three-decker under full sail than
a super-Dreadnaught under full steam. I would rather watch a squad of
hearties drilling with boarding pikes than look on at the smartest exercises
in a 15-inch gun turret.
But what is the good ? Science is an inexorable Frankenstien, and,
having unchained him, we are not going to arrest his progress by lamenting
what he has destroyed. We may occasionally ask questions as to the trend
of his steps. I am about to ask one now. The foregoing conclusion that
a great many people will dismiss it as not a matter for argument at all
does not in the least deter me. It is not even a new question, for we have
heard it a good many times since the war, although not put in the same
sense as I am asking it. In short, as Mr. Micawber would have said, what
is the use of the battleship?
The late Admiral Sir Percy Scott raised this same point entirely on the
grounds of combatant value. His view was that new methods of naval
warfare have beset the capital ship with so many menacing restrictions as to
largely reduce her to impotence. At one time he carried a large body of
opinion with him. I believe that this has steadily dwindled to almost
negligible dimensions. Of course, I need hardly add that I am speaking of
qualified opinion. Our old friend, the man in the street, may well be
pardoned for agreeing, that bombs from above, or torpedoes from beneath,
are going to demolish and surface ship. Probably he secretly wonders how
thirty thousands tons of iron can be got to float at all.
But I believe Captain Max Horton merely spoke the simple truth when
he recently stated that the battleship "is on a firmer basis" than she was
during the war. Her powers of resistance have immensely increased; the
antidotes to the new forms of menace have been steadily and successfully
developed; the new forms of menace have made little, if any, relative
progress. The enormous expenditure of ammunition and the great length
of time which it took to sink the British Monarch and the United States
Washington—both absolutely passive targets-afford a pretty striking illus-
tration of the resisting endurance of the modern armored ship. And pro-
gress toward invulnerability has been carried a long stage further than in
either of these vessels.
Therefore, I think we may definitely reject the premise of Sir Percy
Scott that the battleship is of "no damned use" because she can no longer
adequately defend herself. So far from any prospect of her being driven
off the face of the sea by new methods of warfare, she is considerably better
able to take her own part today than she was ten years ago. Indeed, I


  p. 1549 (#467)                      #

1925]
1549
Professional Notes
preface my question with the admission that the battleship of today is
quite equal to continuing the functions of the ship-of-the-line of a century
ago. As a weapon, in fact, she still remains effective in the highest degree.
But I submit that the value of any weapon, however formidable in itself,
is conditional upon one obvious factor: the opportunity for employing it.
And this is where it seems to me that the battleship has lost her potential
position. The Battle of Tsushima won the naval war for Japan. It marked
the beginning of the Dreadnaught era. In this respect it was a most un-
fortunate "lesson." Japan possessed a superiority of weapons, and her
enemy afforded her an opportunity to use them. The Dreadnaught doctrine
presupposed that such opportunity would always be assured. It simply
meant the policy of building ships to beat the enemy by virtue of being
bigger, and faster, and altogether more formidable than anything he pro-
duced. It marked the very apotheosis of the material school.
The Great War very soon revealed the fact that Germany intended to
deny us opportunity for activity employing our superiority in capital ship
strength. With commendable strategic foresight the grand feet had been
concentrated in its pre-arranged war station before hostilities commenced.
By this initial advantage it was assured that the high seas fleet could only
come forth, to any purpose whatever, on the terms of accepting battle.
During the early days of the great struggle expectation was on the very
tiptoe. The nation was eagerly awaiting the grand clash of the great
armadas. Then, as perception grew that the German Grand Admiral was
steadfastly declining any such clash, a murmur arose to go and "ferret the
rats out of their lair." A good deal was said, and more still was written,
about what Nelson would have done. The Battle of Azoukir was held up as
a splendid precedent for dealing with such a situation. In fact, an extra-
ordinary amount of heroic nonsense was talked and written, for even yet
the radical difference in the conditions of naval warfare between Nelson's
time and Jellico's time had not soaked into the national understanding.
Our grand fleet battleships used their guns in action against the enemy
once during four years. And even this occasion was the result of a mis-
conception on the part of Admiral Scheer, who never had the least intention
of a grand clash with Jellicoe's forces. For four long years, with this
solitary unintended exception, the two most powerful fleets the world has
ever seen sat and watched one another. And meanwhile, beyond the ring
they kept, the sea conflict was waged furiously, and for this country rather
disastrously.
There are plenty of academic-minded students of naval warfare who
either have already treated us, or are quite prepared to treat us, to crudite
demonstrations of the influence of this passive phase upon the course of
the whole, stupendous struggle. They allege that we neutralized the sea
power of Germany. I allege that we did nothing of the sort. When the
German Navy was sinking our battleships in the Dardanelles, when it was
bombarding the port of Liberia, and later on, a lighthouse on the American
coast, when it was scattering the western approaches and the narrow seas
with the cargoes that we so urgently needed, can we say that it was
neutralized"?
We dealt with this new form of war, dealt with it magnificently and
with growing success, but not by virtue of our mighty line-of-battle. In-
deed, the grand fleet proved a positive handicap to commerce protection,
since it retained large numbers of cruisers and destroyers at Scapa which
would have been of the utmost value in the campaign against U boats. Of
course, it could not be helped. There was nothing else that could be done.
The Germans condemned our capital fleet to uselessness in keeping its own
useless. We exercised the "silent pressure" about which the late Admiral
տարի


  p. 1550 (#468)                      #

1550
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Mahan wrote so brilliantly. But, when Mahan was writing, more than three
decades ago, there were no means of getting under and past "silent
pressure”; now the phrase has become an anachronism.
Suppose that neither Germany nor ourselves had possessed any battleships
at all, is it not quite conceivable that we should have got on with the naval
war more quickly and more decisively? It is not true to say that the same
thing might equally be asked of any other type of warcraft. All the other
types of warcraft were actively busy. The capital ships alone (with the
exception of the battle cruisers, which assumed the role formerly filled by
legitimate cruisers) played a negative part. The real value we got out of
our superb grand fleet was that it denied to Germany the possibility of
using her fine high seas fleet. We wanted her to use it from the very time
of taking up our war station, but it was quite impossible to force her into
using it.
What is the use of the battleship? To fight the enemy's battleship. But
suppose the enemy battleship will not come out and fight. In Nelson's day
the remedy for this lay in the close blockade. Such a procedure is out of
the question in this age of submarines and destroyers, of aircraft and mines,
and of artillery possibilities such as were exhibited when the Germans
bombarded Paris from a range of seventy miles. Moreover, why closely
blockade an enemy who has already quite made up his mind to lie snug
behind defenses which it would be altogether too hazardous for any battle
fleet to attempt to force?
The weapons of war have been evolved by the conditions of war. The
conditions of war at sea changed but little from the time of the Spanish
armada until the final disappearance of sail power. The battleship per-
petuates the conditions, but in defiance of the changes which have so re-
stricted her opportunity for fulfilling them. Jutland proved that a great fleet
action can never be the compact and decisive affair it formerly was. The
chemical element is going to add another very confusing factor to the
existing disabilities of open-sea combat. How far that factor may be de-
veloped it is impossible to foresee. The Germans are reported to have
carried out many experiments with rainbow smoke screens during their late
naval maneuvers, the idea being to render effective long-range shooting
impracticable.
When the Rodney and Nelson are completed none of the great sea powers
will be at liberty to lay down any more capital ships (presuming the Wash-
ington Agreement continues to be observed) for several years to come, with
the exception of France, which appears to favor a type of very small and
very mobile battle cruiser, more analogous to an armored cruiser than a
present-day capital ship. During this period there will be considerable
activity in the construction of very fast, sea-keeping cruisers, of 10,000 tons,
armed with 8-inch guns of very high velocity and great range. These
vessels seem to me to embody the latest principles of modern sea warfare:
the capacity to either devastate or protect commerce. They are units of
independent action, as distinct from the merely component function of the
ship-of-the-line. Four of them can be produced for the cost of one
capital ship. Economicaliy, therefore, they are a much preferable weapon.
It is self-evident that they cannot do what the capital ship is designed to
do. But if it be a resonable contention that the capital ship is likely to be
denied much opportunity of fulfilling her designed purpose--at any rate,
actively--then surely this advantage is more apparent than real.
War has one single purpose: the reduction of the enemy to submission.
All the methods and weapons of war are a means to this end. In spite of
our overwhelming strength in ships-in-the-line, and the exceptional advan-
tages of strategic position for the employment of this strength, the


  p. 1551 (#469)                      #

1925]
1551
Professional Notes
Germans at sea came dangerously near to reducing us to capitulation.
This is the aspect of naval war which we have to face in the future. Prey-
ing upon commerce has always been a feature of sea warfare, but the old
privateer was a very different sort of foe from the modern submarine.
Steadily we become less and less a country of internal resources. The pros-
pect of starvation was never really an imminent menace during the great sea
wars of the past. It certainly was in the years 1916-18.
The capital ship is kept alive by rivalry. It is impossible for one power
to abandon her unless all the rest do. Competition frequently results in
confusion of thought. The great naval nations go on evolving the most
formidable weapon in the world. They may have their own doubts as to
the wisdom of such a policy, but they do not frankly say to one another
that the time has come to conform to totally changed conditions. If, and
when, they do, I venture to believe that the battleship will be ranked with
the other bygone things of the spacious past.
The Situation in the Pacific
By Major K. B. Ferguson, R.G.A. (Retd.), Journal of the Royal United
Service Institution, May, 1925.-The problems of the Pacific are the prob-
lems of half the globe. On the circumference of this huge ocean are
China, Japan, Siberia, Canada, the United States, Mexico, the Central
American States with the Panama Canal, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile,
New Zealand, Australia. In addition to these independent states are a
multitude of dependencies, islands, archipelagoes, varying in size and im-
portance from French Indo-China, the Philippine Islands, Borneo, Java, and
Sumatra, to little coral atolls like Pitcairn Island that stands like oases in
a desert of waters. The Pacific Ocean extends from Arctic regions off
Alaska to the Anarctic waters of Ross Sea; and two of the states alone,
China and the United States, include between them one third of the human
race. It is vast in size, and full of fascination. Since it first became known
to Europeans, it has appealed to the imagination of travelers and ad-
venturers; it now appeals also to students of politics, because it is the
scene of international interests that are becoming more momentous every
year.
In a short study today, we can only lay stress upon one or two points
out of scores that offer themselves. I shall first take a glance from the
Japanese point of view. Then I shall turn to the American point of view.
Thirdly, I shall emphasize the importance of China. Finally, I hope to
bring out the lesson which it seems to me all political problems teach us :
the need to consolidate our own Empire, so that in strengthening itself,
it may become a strength and stay to others.
I
Japan has a strong strategical position in the Pacific, and she has
improved the advantage by raising herself to a high pitch of efficiency,
both on land and at sea. But, she has two difficult problems before her ;
one is an outlet for her population, which is growing rapidly; the other is
the problem of external supplies in time of war.
(1) The population of Japan proper is roughly 56,000,000; including
Korea, Formosa, and Saghalien, it is roughly 77,000,000. It increases in
Japan at the rate of about 600,000 a year, and that country is already
closely packed. It is not so dense per square mile as ours in England;
but whereas we have many of the fairest and most fertile portions of the
globe to go to-Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Africa, the Colonies and
Protectorates—the Japanese have at present only Korea, Formosa, and
one half of Saghalien, no one of which offers much scope to an ambitious


  p. 1552 (#470)                      #

1552
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
and enterprising people. Canada, the United States, Australia, and New
Zealand are closed, or are closing, their doors to the Japanese. They
would find space enough, and to spare, in Manchuria and Siberia; but
Russia is beginning to show signs of returning to the old Muscovite policy
which we associate with the Tsarist régime, and will probably close
Siberia to the Japanese unless they are prepared to fight for it, which is
out of the question.
No man can foresee what way Japan will find out of her difficulty,
and I wish purposely to avoid wasting time in speculation about the
future. We can only note the broad fact that an expanding population
must go somewhere, and the other broad fact that all the obvious outlets
are closed. A rising flood must find an outlet or produce a catastrophe.
We know what happened in our own country. England developed slowly
in the 1500's, 1600's, and 1700's. Then, with the dawn of the Industrial
Age, she went forward rapidly, and during the last half century we have
been living in a whirl of motor cars, wireless, American "pep," democracy,
and emancipated women. So it is with Japan. It has been estimated
that during the 230-odd years that she shut herself off from the world,
roughly from the time of Charles I to the middle of Queen Victoria's
reign, her population only increased by some 26,000,000. During the last
sixty years, on the other hand, the rise of Japan has been meteoric and
bewildering; and if she goes on at the same rate, it is evident that her
surplus population must find some place to go to. So much for her first
problem.
(2) Her second problem concerns her supplies in time of war. Like
Great Britain, she is dependent on external sources; she can never again
be self supporting. A hundred years ago, the Japanese cultivated their
rice fields, and lived on the produce thereof; rice and fish were their
staple food, they were a self-centered and self-supporting community. Then
they suddenly flung their doors open and became a World Power. They
wanted ships and commerce, iron works and coal; that constant flow of
raw material, of exports and imports, that an industrial nation demands.
But Japan has no more acreage now than she had a hundred years ago,
and the Law of Diminishing Returns does not forget to act. So she has
to get raw materials and foodstuffs from abroad, in the same way as we
do ourselves. The government is making strenuous efforts to increase the
productivity of the land, chiefly in the output of rice, so as to make the
country self-supporting again. But the tendencies are against it. The
Japanese, for instance, are eating increasing quantities of meat, and want-
ing an improved standard of living, with more luxury and comfort; and as
this tendency becomes more marked every year, Japan will depend more
and more on foreign trade. Therein lies a danger, which the efforts of the
most peaceful-minded statesman cannot prevent. We shall see commercial
and industrial competition increasing in the Far East, and there is no
reason to doubt that it will lead to armed conflict some day, as it did among
ourselves in Europe a few years ago.
I would like, at this stage, to point to a group of figures which show
the industrial development of Japan within the lifetime of a middle-aged
man of today. In 1868, or fifty-six years ago, at the time of the restoration
to power of the grandfather of the present Mikado, she had no factories
at all in the modern sense. In 1900 she had some 7,000; today she has about
25,000.
The growth of Japanese shipping has kept pace with this rapid industrial
growth. Japan has her trade routes not only across the Pacific, but over
the whole world; and we, who realize that the safety of our empire
depends on our being able to keep our trade routes open, can sympathize
with her, because she is in the same position. If her communications


  p. 1553 (#471)                      #

1925)
1553
Professional Notes
with the outer world are cut, she will be in danger of starvation, not
only in the matter of food, but also of raw materials-wool, cotton, iron,
etc. It is not enough for her to have a strong strategical position if she
remains vulnerable on those lines of communication. It is not enough to
know that in her corner of the Pacific, thousands of miles from Europe
and the United States, she cannot be beaten in direct attack. She has to
bear in mind the fact that she could be worn down without being attacked,
if her supplies were cut off.
That is her point of view toward America and Europe. But she also
has to take into account the two remarkable Powers to west and north of
her. She may have nothing to fear from China or Russia at the present
moment, because both are in a chaotic state of government. But if we are
to believe the best authorities on China, that vast country is being
gradually transformed. I do not think that any amount of transformation
will ever make the Chinese an aggressive race, because we have four
thousand ycars of their history to show that it is not in them. They
have from the earliest times been a pastoral and agricultural people, good
traders and workers, good artisans and laborers; never a fighting race
like the Japanese or Prussians. But they may quite conceivably develop
more power to resist aggression on the part of others, and that is enough
to alarm Japan. Roosevelt, in his Autobiography, wrote of "the frightful
calamities that have befallen China because she has had no power of
self defense." Perhaps without ever becoming aggressive she will develop
that power of self defense; and if she does, Japan, like all the rest of us,
will have her work cut out for her.
North of China, again, is the formidable power of Russia-outwardly
changed, as a man's appearance is changed after fearful sickness, but in
essentials the same as ever before. Do you remember the stories we used to
hear about exiles to Siberia in the time of the Tsars? about sinister secret
police of Russia? about the squalor and sufferings of the mujik? about the
fiendish cruelties of Ivan the Terrible and Peter the Great? about the
expansion of Russia towards Turkestan and Mongolia, and her ambition
to have outlets on the Black Sea and the Pacific? It is all just the same
now; if they manage to retain power, the present rulers of Russia will
follow on the same line as the old ones; or, if they are driven out by some
new Ivan or Peter, he will go on as before. If we do not realize that,
Japan does. When she looks ahead, she has to take into account the
likelihood, if not the certainty, that some day China, or Russia, or both,
will become a grave menace to her. Now that she has annexed Korea and
so planted her foot on the mainland, she is even more precariously involved
than if she were only an island power. It is as if we came into possession
of Denmark, or of the Cherbourg promontory in the north of France.
Think what a difference it would make to our position in Europe !
I cannot dwell longer on the Japanese point of view, so I merely repeat
the three points on which I have laid stress:
1. The problem of her surplus population.
2. The problem of external supplies.
3. The possible danger from China and Russia as near neighbors.
I now cross over to the other side of the Pacific, and look at the
situation from the American point of view.
II
Our American cousins have their frailties and virtues like everyone
else, but false modesty is not one of them. They do not underrate their
own importance in the world. They are convinced that the U.S.A. is
the greatest of the Great Powers, the hub of the universe, and that they
must be "top dog" in the Pacific. The Japanese have precisely the same


  p. 1554 (#472)                      #

1554
[Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
idea about their own country, so the two must necessarily come into
conflict; not armed conflict, perhaps, but economic conflict, and a conflict
of ambitions.
The United States gave hostages to fortune when they stretched across
the Pacific to Hawaii and the Philippines. It is not for a humble student
of world politics to judge whether, on balance, they are a source of
advantage or a weakness to her. One of the greatest of modern Americans,
Theodore Roosevelt, held that the Philippines were indispensable to America
as an advanced base. Other strategists deny this, and go so far as to
say that the Philippines would be a gift to Japan within the first few
weeks of a conflict, because before an American fleet could steam 5,000-
odd miles to defend this base, the Japanese would be in possession of it;
and furthermore, that the American fleet would then be helpless for lack
of coal, and would consequently be at the mercy of the enemy. However
that may be, America has thrown herself right across the Pacific, and in
the Philippines she is the very door of China. We cannot blame the
Japanese if they feel misgivings about this. Mr. Rooosevelt himself told
them that their sphere was in Asia, while the American sphere was on
the continent of America: in other words, that each power could keep on
its own side of the Pacific, and they need never collide. If in spite of that
they see the United States spreading across to the Philippines, with stepping
stones at Hawaii, Midway Island, and Guam, they are quite right to take
necessary precautions.
The attitude which Americans have taken up over the immigration
question has naturally accentuated the rivalry between them and the
Japanese. The Americans of the Pacific States, who are the people who
matter in this case, dislike and look down on the Japanese. They make
no distinction between them and the Chinese, Siamese, or other races of
Eastern Asia, but bracket them all together as "yellow men"; in fact,
many of these people, who for twenty years have been agitating for the
exclusion of the Japanese, and who are at the back of the recent anti-
immigrant troubles, look upon them as simply another form of "nigger."
The intense racial feeling along the Pacific coast is not comprehensible
to us in England for the same reason why we cannot understand the
intense feeling of the French against the Germans. We have never been
in the same peril as France from a stronger neighbor on our frontier,
and we have not enough imagination to put ourselves in her place. In
the same way, England enjoys immunity from racial dangers, and people
who are thus immune cannot imagine how those dangers affect other
people. The objection of the Americans to Japanese is partly racial and
partly economic. It is racial in that they object to the idea of having
Japanese proprietors of American soil, employing American men and
women in a subordinate capacity. It is economic in the sense that the
American artisan or laborer cannot compete with Japanese labor, which
is equally efficient and very much cheaper. So American trade unions are
up in arms. Our own people in Canada, Australia, and New Zealand are
not less emphatic than the Americans, and do not differentiate much
between Japanese and other yellow or brown races.
The Americans are quite within their rights in objecting to a Japanese
invasion. Mr. Roosevelt put the case fairly and squarely, as usual, when
he said: “The Japanese themselves would not tolerate the intrusion into
their country of a mass of Americans who would displace Japanese in the
business of the land. I think they are entirely right in this position. I
would be the first to admit that Japan has the absolute right to declare
on what terms foreigners shall be admitted to work in her country, or to
own land in her country, or to become citizens in her country. America
has and must insist upon the same right. The people of California were


  p. 1555 (#473)                      #

1925]
1555
Professional Notes
right in insisting that the Japanese should not come thither in mass, that
there should be no influx of laborers, of agricultural workers, or small
tradesmen-in short, no mass settlement or immigration."
The Japanese complaint is that the recent American legislation is uncalled
for. They maintain that the so-called “Gentlemen's Agreement" of 1908,
under which Japan herself, out of deference to America, restricted the
flow of Japanese immigrants into the U.S.A., was working well and doing
all that was necessary and that the new legislation discriminates between
immigrants from Japan, who are shut out, and those from France, Italy,
and other European countries, who are still allowed to come in. In other
words, they complain that the issue is now purely racial, and insulting to
them.
It is naturally an intolerable position for them. They resent being
classed with Chinese and other Asiatic races, because they consider that the
events of the last thirty years have given them a superior status. They
also resent the suggestion of inferiority to white races which is implied in
their exclusion from white men's countries, because they consider, quite
rightly, that those events have put them on a footing of equality with the
white races. They defeated the Russians twenty years ago, and sat in
judgment on the Germans and Austrians after the Great War. They were
among the Big Five at Versailles; and, after having accepted their aid in
1914, we can scarcely turn around now and deny them equal rights with
ourselves.
How far Japan will be able to redress this inequality and assert
a right to enter other people's countries,-this remains to be seen. It is
a problem of the Pacific which we or our descendants will some day come
up against in an acute form. For the present America has made up her
mind, and is not going to draw back. She is evidently determined to make
the Pacific seaboard safe for her own democracy. She sets us a good
example in this respect.
Will Japan fight America ? The question is constantly raised, but
is one of those speculative problems with which I have no time to deal here.
It seems to me that Japan is in more danger from China or Russia than
from the U.S.A., or ourselves on the other side of the great Ocean.
Whether in a passive or an active rôle, she is more closely committed in
northeastern Asia than anywhere else, and is more likely to come into
conflict with her rivals there. Now that she is being shut out from the
North American continent and from Australasia, she has has an additional
reason to look westward for means of expansion. Secondly, the annexa-
tion of Korea has made her a continental power. Thirdly, Russia contains
aggressive elements which may at any time renew the menace to Japan in
the Far East. For more than one reason, therefore, Japan has to watch
her neighbors to west and northwest of her carefully.
III
I have sketched briefly the points of view of Japan and the United
States. Behind these two protagonists is the vast form of China.
China is the pivot round which all Pacific problems revolve. In size
she is one of the greatest powers on that ocean; in population she is by
far the greatest. You will find that every one of the western powers, in
its outlook upon the Pacific, keeps one eye all the time on China. We
have all tried, with vary success, to grab portions of her territory. We
have tried to dominate her trade, and obtain the first place in her huge
markets. We have heard allusions to the "yellow peril," "slumbering
millions" and "awakening giants.” But what is not always realized fully
is the latent strength of the Chinese. Most of us look upon them as an
inferior race, only semi-civilized and very backward. Backward they cer-


  p. 1556 (#474)                      #

1556
[Aug
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
tainly are, if we take them collectively. The peasants and laborers in
remote parts of the country live in a state of ignorance, squalor, and misery,
though I doubt if it is worse than in Russia and other parts of Europe.
On the other hand, the better class of Chinese are an exceedingly fine race.
To look upon them as inferior to ourselves, or less civilized, would show
ignorance on our own part. They have traditions that go back not only
beyond our Norman and Anglo-Saxon periods, but far beyond the early
ages of Greek and Roman civilization. They are people of great natural
ability, supreme in every branch of commerce. And in addition to their
natural ability, they have a courtesy of manner that makes them pleasant to
deal with, either in business or in social intercourse.
They are extraordinary people; and it strikes me more forcibly the
longer I think about it, that China is not conquerable. You cannot
conquer such an immense mass of people, and their civilization is so
strongly rooted that you cannot even shake it seriously. At present,
however, this vast and clumsy organization has no head, no organization,
no fixed purpose, no means of carryng out a purpose. Yet it is very
much alive, and its potential strength is beyond the reach of our imagina-
tion. To talk of Japan conquering it, or annexing it, or even guiding it, is
unthinkable to me, because China is greater than Japan in every way but
one: namely, that she hates and despises fighting and every form of
strenuous competition. That seems to me to be the only respect in which
she is not the equal or superior of any other people, white, brown, or
yellow.
I shall not attempt to give an outline of Chinese political history
during the last few months. Chinese civil warfare has a style of its own,
not like anything else with which we are familiar. And even if I could
explain the ups and downs of Chang Tso Lin, Wu Pei Fu, Feng Yu Hsiang,
Tuan Chi Jui, and other Celestial leaders, it would serve no useful purpose,
because the relation of these men to the inner life of China is the relation
of foam on the crest of a wave to the deep waters that lie beneath. I
would, however, emphasize the fact that China is changing, slowly,
perhaps, but surely, under the influence of western civilization. Nothing
will make the Chinese become European. They have too much indi-
viduality; and a civilization that has endured for 4,000, 5,000, or 6,000 years
is not going to alter fundamentally in the course of a man's lifetime. But
they will alter externally, even as we have altered in the last fifty years,
though we are still the same people of Shakespeare and Nelson. Scientific
knowledge, hygiene, and mechanical invention will filter through these
myriads of people, and make a vast difference in them. Observers on the
spot tell us there has already been an extraordinary change in the last few
years. You have no doubt heard about the Young China Movement,
which is largely directed by young students and people of radical, not to
say revolutionary, tendencies. Like youthful enthusiasts all the world
over, these young Chinese want to reform everything, and obtain the
millennium by return post. Their zeal often outruns their judgment and
their powers; but they are a great force, and their influence upon the future
of their country is likely to be momentous.
What China needs today is a strong government to keep order and
assist in her development. At present the weakness of the central
government is a hindrance to herself, and is a source of anxiety and danger
to everyone else. The lives and property of our fellow-countrymen can
never be thoroughly safe with an unstable government that cannot put
a stop to bandit outrages and the vagaries of military chieftains. On the
other hand, a well-ordered and prosperous China will tend toward
stability. It is not in the Chinese to be an aggressive nation, and the idea
of swarms of them rushing forth to invade the American Continent,


  p. 1557 (#475)                      #

1925]
1557
Professional Notes
Australia, and New Zealand is fanciful. They will be more likely to assert
their right to regulate their trade with us, and to shut out foreigners when
they feel inclined. That may become inconvenient for us from the
commercial point of view, but we cannot deny them that elementary right
if we go on calling them a sovereign power. Such an eventuality is,
however, not likely to happen in our time.
Before passing on to the concluding portion of my lecture-the
consideration of our own position in the Pacific-let me sum up a few
impressions. The general impression we get from our subject is that
forces are rising up in the Pacific which may some day get out of control.
(1) One is the expansion of Japan, whose population is increasing rapidly,
but is refused admission into other countries where it might find an outlet.
(2) A second force is rising up in China. Her population question is also
likely to become acute, especially if she adopts western methods of
hygiene, and avoids the frightful wastage which has hitherto been due to
disease and pestilence. (3) A third is the expansion of the United States,
which are still as it were a young giant, growing rapidly. (4) On the
north-west corner of the Pacific is a fourth-Russia, a huge power, of
which no wise man would attempt to predict the future five years ahead.
(5) In the northeast and the southwest of the great ocean you find our
own empire, represtented by Canada, New Zealand, Australia, various
dependencies, and two links in the chain which binds London to the Far
East, Singapore and Hong Kong. Here are five forces that are growing up
in the Pacific; and we have made no mention of the interests of France in
Cochin China, or of the South American States.
Another impression we get from this study is that the broad line of
cleavage in the Pacific is racial, and not national. Japan belongs to Asia;
the inhabitants of America belong to Europe. If Japan were to fight
Canada or Australia for the right of immigration, the U.S.A. would join in
with our Dominions, and vice versa. The same idea is at the back of the
Japanese mind when they think of an Asiatic Monroe Doctrine-Asia for
the Asiatics. It is a perfectly just idea. Japan ought to support China
in her claim to independence, and if she were large-minded enough to do
so, they would be a formidable combination. But at present it seems un-
likely, because there is hatred between the two. Like other nations, Japan,
instead of helping China, has aimed at suppressing her, and squeezing
everything out of her that could be squeezed. The Chinese have been
alive to this, and will try some day to get their own back from the
Japanese. Yet this does not alter the fact that Japan really belongs to
Asia, and must find her ultimate development along Asiatic, and not
European, line.
IV
Meanwhile, how do we stand ourselves in the Pacific? The British
Empire is potentially the greatest power in the world at present, and she
has interests in the Pacific second to no other. Three of the Dominions
are there; two of the foremost trading centers in the world, Hong Kong
and Singapore; and groups of dependencies like Fiji, British North Borneo,
New Guinea, and the Mandatory Islands south of the Equator. We are
thus involved on the western seaboard, on the eastern, and on the southern.
Only to the northwest, where Japan, China, and Russia stand facing one
another, is there no portion of the British Empire.
Our position in the southwestern Pacific has received much attention
of late in connection with the question of Singapore. I try to look at that
question not from the point of view of a soldier, who may be expected to
show professional bias, but from that of a plain citizen, who only has an
ordinary measure of common sense to go by. Looking at it in that way,


  p. 1558 (#476)                      #

1558
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
I notice that a continuous chain of bases and coaling stations runs from
the United Kingdom through Gibralter, Malta, the Suez Canal, and Aden,
or alternately through Sierra Leone, Cape Town, and Mauritius, to
Ceylon and Singapore, and from there to Hong Kong in one direction,
Australia and New Zealand in the other. If we are prepared to adopt
the policy of Denmark, and leave ouselves entirely unprotected, well and
good. But if we are going to make any preparations at all in case trouble
should arise, it appears to me to follow that Singapore should be strongly
fortified, so that our chain cannot be broken there. The more I study
other nations, the less I like those things with the new-fangled name of
"moral gestures.” A moral gesture is the last thing to earn the respect
of a Japanese, or a Chinese Tuchum, or a high-minded American, or a
patriotic Frenchman; they will like us better if we say to them fairly and
squarely: "We propose to fortify Singapore because it is a vital point on
our line of communications between London and our people in the Pacific.
It is obviously no menace to you Japanese and Americans because it is too
far from either of you, and is outside the zone that we agreed upon at the
Washington Conference, within which no new fortifications were to be
constructed. Our ships in Far Eastern waters need a base where they
can be secure and can carry out necessary repairs. Singapore is better
than Hong Kong for another reason: That it gives us more security against
aircraft; and the volume of trade that passes through the Malacca Straits
is so vast that we must have the means of protecting it adequately."
I can understand, without necessarily accepting it, the argument
that advocates Sydney Harbor in preference to Singapore. I can also
understand, without necessarily accepting it, the argument of those
critics who contend that a fortified base at Singapore is a waste of money
in these days of submarines and aircraft. But I cannot work up any
sympathy with "moral gestures," and am out of touch with people who
appear afraid of what Japan or America may say about Singapore. The
Prime Minister said recently in fine words: “Our duty is to lead the
world, and not to follow anybody." If we apply that test to Singapore,
we shall do what our responsibility imposes upon us, and not wait for the
approval of the powers. The best men in every country know quite well
what our motives are, and those are the only men who really matter.
It is instructive to contrast the positions of Canada and the Australasian
Dominions in the Pacific. Canada is the go-between between the United
States and ourselves. She has so much in common with the United States
that she will frequently appreciate their point of view when it is obscure
to us; at the same time she has a national consciousness strong enough
to remind the United States that they are only one half of the North
American Continent. We cannot be too often reminded of the standing
wonder of that undefended frontier of 3,000 miles between Canada and
the United States. I know nothing like it in Europe,
Australia and New Zealand, not being in contact with another Power,
have a difficult character from that of Canada. In spite of their distance
from us, away at the Antipodes, they are in closer sympathy with the
Mother Country, and in their relation to the problem of the Pacific they
look solely to themselves and the Home country, having no powerful
neighbor to think about. The Singapore question, which is vital to
Australia and New Zealand, does not affect Canada in the same way.
Australia and New Zealand depend more on us than Canada does; and if
all three feel anxiety about competition from Asiatics, Australia, and New
Zealand look to us for protection, whereas Canada derives a great deal of
security from the fact that any menace to her is a menace also to the
United States, which they will help her to repel. For that reason Singa-


  p. 1559 (#477)                      #

19251
1559
Professional Notes
pore is of vital consequence to the Australasian Dominions; it is the first
link in the chain that binds them to London.
I would not feel justified in attempting to discuss the situation in the
Pacific from the point of view of naval stragety. I am to some extent
afraid of the frown of authority, but still more afraid of the ridicule of
critics who know more about naval strategy than I do. I notice that each
of the three strongest powers in the Pacific says one of the others is doing
something she should not do under the Washington Agreement; some-
times it relates to gun elevation, sometimes to naval maneuvers, or to
fortresses, or vessels other than capital ships. It is too much to expect
anyone to trust anyone else in those distant waters. Japan learnt a
bitter lesson in 1895, when Russia, Germany, and France squeezed her
out of the Liao Tung Peninsula on an unctuous pretext, only for Russia
to step into her place three years later and seize the very territory she
had said it would be wrong for Japan to occupy. The dubious action of
Japan in presenting her Twenty-one Demands to China in 1915 may have
been the natural outcome of the treachery she had experienced twenty
years later. The British Empire will remain predominant in the Pacific,
as it ought to be, if it is entirely open handed in its dealings with friends
and rivals alike.
This study of the problems of the Pacific has led me to two conclusions,
among others :
(1) That many of the dealings of the western powers with China
cannot be defended on any principle except that Might is Right. Might
need not necessarily mean any form of oppression or cruelty. It can go
with courtesy, chivalry, mercy, justice, and kindliness. It can be used to
make men happier, healthier, and in every way better. But from the
time when Europeans first appeared in the Pacific until today, the Chinese
and Japanese have never wanted them; and if we have any right to be
there, it is might only that gives us that right. It would be foolish to
suggest that we should evacuate China merely because China does not
want us, but perhaps some day China will put her house in order, and be
in a position to compel us to treat her in the same way that we treat Japan,
France, or any other power with which we have dealings.
(2) My second conclusion arises out of that possibility: it is, that the
line upon which we of the British Empire should go in the future should be
not only to allow China, but even to assist her, to develop her power. We
must never admit the idea Japan expressed in 1914 when she said she
could not tolerate the awakening of some 400 million Chinese which would
follow if China went into the war on the side of the Allies. A man who
begins by being afraid of his rival is already half beaten. The British
Empire has no occasion to be afraid of any other power, least of all of
China, because as I have pointed out more than once, the Chinese have
never, since the dawn of their history, been an aggressive race. To those
who are still afraid of a "yellow peril," I would commend the reading of
a small book called “The Awakening of Japan," by Okakura Kakuzo,
published in 1905. He says there:
"Not once during the whole of their history do we find the native dynasties
of China and India coming into collision with one another. The only oc-
casion on which China ever menaced Japan was in the 12th century, when
her own Mongol conquerors tried to impose their authority upon us." (203).
Recent events in China may give the impression that a military spirit
is becoming prevalent there, and that the present system of Tuchuns, all
at loggerheads with one another, reducing the government of the country
to a state of chaos, may be followed some day by the rise of a super-
Tuchun, another Yuan Shi Kai, who would first consolidate his own power,


  p. 1560 (#478)                      #

1560
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
and then direct it against us Europeans. It is conceivable if we imagine
such a man merely asserting the sovereignty, independence, territorial and
administrative integrity of China. It is not conceivable if we imagine
any active designs against us; any threat to our Dominions and Possessions
in the Pacific. It is conceivable that the young people of to-day may live
to see China an independent State in the same sense that Japan is, having
done away with extra-territoriality, and compelled us to deal with her as
an equal, not an inferior Power. But from that to becoming an active
menace to other nations is a far cry. It is not necessary for us to trouble
ourselves about the possibility for the present.
I can, however, see no limits to the expansion of the Chinese if, after
assimilating our knowledge of science and hygiene, they increase and
multiply even more rapidly than at present. It is appalling to think that
if they multiply even at the same rate as we do—and our rate of increase
is not very rapid-they must have added 60,000,000 to their popualtion
since I was in China as a subaltern! 60,000,000! and the whole population
of the United Kingdom is only about 43,000,000! A force like this is,
as I said before, something elemental which it passes the wit of man to
cope with. Nature alone can cope with it. She has hitherto kept down
that immense population by various means-partly by an extra strenuous
application of the law of survival of the fittest, in various forms of
plague, pestilence, and famine; partly by visitations like the Taiping Re-
bellion, which is said to have cost 15,000,000 lives; partly by physical
agencies like the Yangtze shifting it course from one bed to another and
drowning people like swarms of insects. In what way she will deal with the
problems of a new China which has adopted Western scientific methods
and engineering we cannot attempt to foretell.
In the present consideration of every problem that arises, we have
one question to ask ourselves: What is the best line to take for the welfare
of the Empire?-remembering always that it is our duty to lead the
world, and not to follow anybody. If there were any way of obtaining the
opinion of the Chinese and Japanese as a whole, it would be seen that we
stand higher in their regard than any other Power. I am inclined to agree
with the author of that excellent new work-Western Civilization and
the Far East, Lieutenant Commander Stephen King Hall, R.N.—that the
reason for this is that in our dealings with them we have never made
professions of idealism, which they do not understand, but have gone on
straightforward business lines, which they can grasp. We have, too, the
initial advantage of standing high in the regard of all Asiatic races. They
naturally do not like us, partly because they do not go in for altruism
and universal love, but still more because it would be too much to expect
anyone to like strangers who come in at the gate unbidden and refuse to
go away again. Without liking us, however, they respect us, and if we
remain the strong and straightforward people we have been, they will
continue to respect us.
If we keep before us the idea of a strong and united empire, we
shall avoid mistakes that others have made. I have already alluded to a
Japanese idea on the outbreak of the Great War, that if China were allowed
to come in on the side of the Allies, it would lead to an awakening of her
400 million people, and would be a menace to Japan. That is an unworthy
notion. Japan can never lead the Asiatic races, as she aspires to do, if
she is afraid of them and keeps them in bondage, and they will not
be worth leading. The Japanese make a mistake in supressing, or trying
to suppress, the Chinese. If they had been more large-minded, they could
by this time have bound the Chinese to them by bonds of gratitude, and
made themselves all-powerful in the Western Pacific.


  p. 1561 (#479)                      #

1925]
1561
Professional Notes
If we keep to our Imperial ideals, we shall also avoid the mistake
certain Americans are making in exasperating the Japanese by their im-
migration laws. I have never seen any reason given for supposing that
the “Gentlemen's Agreement" of 1908, by which Japan herself undertook
to restrict her immigration into the United States, was not sufficient. So
far as an outsider can see, it would appear that extremist opinion has
prevailed over more moderate counsels, and that something has been done
that was uncalled for. The Japanese will not forget it; no self-respecting
nation would. I am afraid there has been a lack of generosity on the side
of the Americans of late, and I devoutly hope my own countrymen will
take note of it, and banish every thought of jealousy and fear from their
minds.
It appears to me to be inevitable that a conflict should occur some day
in the Pacific, hut it may not take the obvious form of a fight between two
nations like Japan and the United States. The leaders of Japan are too
shrewd to take on such a colossal fight with their present resources, and
the United States are not likely to initiate such a war. It is more likely
to be a struggle between East and West; between two civilizations, Oriental
and Occidental; between their idea of Contentment and our idea of Progress.
A struggle of that kind is not to be settled by war. We have the example
of the last war to prove that: It has settled nothing. The conflict between
France and Germany is as bitter as ever; so is the so-called conflict between
Capital and Labor; while a new form of plague has arisen, Bolshevism,
the final effect of which no man can foretell.
When this huge conflict in the Pacific does come, it will take a course
as unexpected as that of the Great War, and produce still more frightful
results. But we cannot prevent it by saying "Oh! how dreadful.” We
shall do better to admit that it will come, and shape our policy accordingly.
In my humble opinion, the best preparation we can make is, by every
word, thought, and act, to help to consolidate the British Empire; above
all, to have things in good order here, in the United Kingdom, because
the empire will always depend on the Mother Country, and our destinies
in the Pacific will be unrolled here, in London. This in our interests,
but also in the interests of others. The development of China; the
future progress of Japan, the revival of Russia in the Far East; the
racial and economic problems of the United States on their Pacific sea-
board; the security of Australia and New Zealand-all these will be
affected, for better or for worse, by the condition of the British Empire
as a whole. The destinies of the Pacific, which are the destinies of half
the globe, depend more than we realize on this little island of ours, whose
sons
"are neither children nor gods, but men in a world of men.”
CURRENT NAVAL AND PROFESSIONAL PAPERS
“The Nations Organization for War," by Major Osvaldi Natalini, Italian
Army, in U. S. Infantry Journal, June.
“Coast Artillery Shooting." Coast Artillery Journal, May and June.
“The Passing of Old Ironsides." Scientific American, July.
“Gas Turbines.” Engineering, June 12.
“Maritime Power and Continental Alliance.” Journal of the Royal
United Service Institution, May.
“Old and New Theories in Gun Erosion.” Army Ordnance, May-June.
“The Naval Side of British History," by Geoffrey Callender. Little,
Brown and Company, Boston, 1925.


  p. 1562 (#480)                      #

1562
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The Naval History of the World War, (Book), by Captain Thomas
G. Frothingham, U. S. R., Harvard University Press (2 vols., $3.75 each).
The Roots and Causes of the Wars, (1914-18), (Book), by John S.
Ewart, Doran (2 vols., $12.50).
Fought for Annapolis, (Book), by Fitzhugh Green, Appleton, 1925, $1.75.
Contents of the Transactions of the Society of
Naval Architects and Marine Engineers, Vol. 32, 1924.
"Aeronautics in Naval Architecture," by Commander J. C. Hunsaker.
"Hydraulic Seagoing Hopper Dredges," by Captain W. D. Styer.
"Self-unloading Bulk Cargo Vessels of the Great Lakes," by Penton and
Sadler.
"Comparison of Model Propeller Experiments in Three Nations,” by
Rear Admiral D. W. Taylor.
"The Extent of Cavitation in U. S. Scouts and Destroyers,” by Captain
E. F. Eggert.
"Wake and Thrust Deduction of Self-Propelled Single-Screw Models,"
by Professor E. M. Bragg.
“Application of Fuel Conservation and Engineering Performance Stand-
ards to Shipping Board Vessels, by C. J. Jefferson.
"Design and Construction of Refrigerated Ships," by L. Williams.
"Scrapping Warships,” by Commander Rossell.
"Trials and Operation of the Motor Ship Cubore," by A. B. Homer.
"Problems in Connection with Conversion of the Hog Island Steamer
Seekonk to a Motor Ship," by J. C. Shaw.
"A Diesel Electric Tug," by F. L. DuBosque.
“Address” (at the banquet), by Admiral Plunkett.


  p. 1563 (#481)                      #

NOTES ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
FROM 7 JUNE TO 7 JULY
PREPARED BY
PROFESSOR ALIAN WESTCOTT, U. S. Naval ACADEMY
EUROPEAN SECURITY NEGOTIATIONS
FRENCH NOTE TO GERMANY.—The course of negotiations between Great
Britain, France, and Germany for a mutual security agreement, affecting
especially the Rhine frontier, was made clear on June 18 by full publication
ini m vermany Tomar mutual security a teement, ater
of the German proposal for a Rhine compact made last February, the
British and French correspondence preliminary to a reply, and finally
the French note to Germany delivered on June 16 with the full approval
of the British Foreign Office.
In brief the British attitude, as indicated in the correspondence, was
that Great Britain in the interests of European peace was willing to give
up her policy of isolation, and pledge herself to the use of force in
guarantee of the Rhine frontier. But while Great Britain looked with
favor upon the establishment of arbitration treaties between France and
Germany or with other European powers she was not prepared to guarantee
them by force. In other words, Great Britain would guarantee only the
Rhine frontier.
The French reply to Germany on June 16 was cautious but generally
conciliatory and favorable. It accepted the idea of a compact guaranteeing
the Rhine boundary, and also an agreement to arbitrate all issues between
France and Germany, subject, however, to certain conditions. These in-
cluded: (1) Germany's entrance into the League of Nations; (2) Ger-
many's full acceptance of all the provisions of the Versailles Treaty, and
also her acceptance of other treaties resulting from the war; (3) inclusion
of Belgium; (4) negotiation of arbitration treaties between Germany and
her other neighbors. The note in conclusion stated that France would be
glad to see the United States associated "in this work of general peace and
security.”
FRENCH PRESS FAVORABLE (From New York Times of June 20).–Paris,
June 19.-The French press almost unanimously agrees the compact offered
to Germany in response to the Reich's proposals of February 9 is as complete
a guarantee of European peace as could possibly be realized under present
conditions. Obviously the weak point from the French view is the refusal
of England to bind herself to intervention on the east front as she does
on the Rhine front, but even this difficulty is believed to be solved in Great


  p. 1564 (#482)                      #

1564
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
[Aug.
Britain's agreement to fulfill all obligations that may be imposed upon her
by membership in the League of Nations should the League establish a
case of aggression against the territories of France's allies in Eastern
Europe.
In fact, for the French the most important document published in con-
nection with the note itself is that concerning the liberty of France to
occupy the Rhine zone in event of an act of aggression by Germany against
any of her eastern allies. It is generally conceded the note itself is not
any too clear on the subject. Foreign Minister Briand, in order not to
offend German pride, evidently had to glide over this aspect of the situation
gently and diplomatically, but the French insist the stipulation is unquestion-
ably there by reason of Austen Chamberlain's letter of June 9, in which the
British Premier agrees the Rhine compact must in no way prevent France
"from exercising any action conforming with the guarantees which she shall
have been accorded under arbitration treaties between Germany and her
neighbors."
One viewpoint which deviates from the general tone of optimism in the
French press is that of Pertinax in the Echo de Paris, who declares the
success of the Briand-Chamberlain compact is theoretical rather than real.
“The pact is essentially bilateral, as noted in the speech of Mr. Chamber-
lain on March 24 and the recent speech of Mr. Baldwin," he says. “Between
France and Germany the pact establishes British arbitration. If we ever
want to cross the Rhine, this arbitration, determined by British interests and
conceptions at the moment, will become for us a powerful obstacle."
In the main, however, the French press agrees the compact will con-
stitute full protection of French interests if Germany becomes a member
of the League of Nations and thereby binds herself to decisions of the
League. The compact conforming sufficiently to German proposals of
February 9, the French do not see how Germany can avoid acceptance.
In this discussion of the security compact considerable regret is being
expressed that it must go into effect without the adherence of the United
States. General Taufleib, examining this aspect of the situation in the
Information, lays stress on the advantages to the United States from
participation should trouble arise in the Far East.
"Ever since participation of the United States in regulating the problem
of reparations through application of the Dawes plan," says General
Tauflieb, "the United States, in fact, has adopted a course of action which
logically should result in adhesion to a pact guaranteeing the security of
the principal European nations. Would not such an accord help to solve
the question of disarmament which our American friends hold so much to
heart? In attaching its signature to a pact of this kind the American
Government would give it force and authority such as would make the
pact an irresistible instrument of peace. I know the reluctance of our
American friends to become involved in new European quarrels. But let
them turn their eyes to the clouds menacing from the direction of the Pacific
and Asia. Are not events developing between Moscow and Peking which
are likely to change the scene of international preoccupations? The struggle
of tomorrow in all likelihood will find Asiatic peoples encouraged by Com-
munist propaganda and supported by Japan on one side and the United
States on the other, assisted by European powers in an effort to defend
the present social state. In this struggle the United States will feel the
necessity of having behind it the support of Europe, united, strong and
fully prepared to concentrate itself to its cause."
BRITISH Press COMMENT (From Living Age of June 13).-The Outlook
(London) is not hopeful that France and Great Britain will be able to agree
upon a security pact under any circumstances, and whatever hope it


  p. 1565 (#483)                      #

1925]
1565
Notes on International Affairs
cherished in this direction has been dashed by the uncompromising attitude
manifested by the Little Entente at the Bucharest Conference last month.
Britain will never consent to go to war to maintain the present frontiers in
Eastern Europe, while France can hardly permit a change in these frontiers.
France, then, must choose between the sea power of Britain and the
land power of Central Europe, and is, of course, free to avail herself of
that arm which she thinks will benefit her most. No British statesman and
no British journalist would presume to guide her choice. But one word of
caution may be uttered. Before 1914 she combined an entente with Britain
with an alliance with Russia. That combination cannot be repeated because
there is no German fleet a-building nowadays. She can have her pact in the
West or her pact in the East; but not both.
Sisley Huddleston says in the New Statesman that France cannot sur-
render her present system of alliances for any kind of general pact without
discussion, and then only subject to the following conditions:
(1) The unconditional entry of Germany into the League of Nations
before the pact comes into force. Those who derive amusement from the
inconsistencies of diplomacy will appreciate the irony which is to be found
in France's insistence on Germany's admission into the League from which
she was anxious not long ago to exclude her former enemy.
(2) The strict observance of all the Articles of the Versailles Treaty,
particularly in respect of Germany's disarmament and the demilitarization
of Rhineland.
(3 The consolidation of the territorial status quo for the German
frontiers in the East as in the West.
(4) The inclusion of England as a party to such a pact, with all that
such inclusion implies in the shape of direct action against the one country
which France fears may denounce any of its clauses.
The Little Entente is alarmed not only by Germany's reservations in
her proposal for a security pact, which imply an eventual readjustment of
her eastern frontiers at the expense particularly of Poland, but also by the
rumor that she may use this reservation to trade upon in securing a union
with Austria. It is the latter possibility that has alarmed Czecho-Slovakia,
which is not directly threatened by Germany's other frontier claims. As a
correspondent in the Nation and the Athenaum says:
Such a union would be the first and least contestable change which
Germany could claim on her eastern frontier, for it is indeed hard to see
by what principle of nationality, self-determination, or international comity
German-Austria is refused the right to decide her own fate by a free
plebiscite, and, if she desires, to put an end to the miserable, unnatural
existence she has been forced to lead for these last six and a half years.
This, however, the Czechs are determined to prevent. “The deadly blows
to us," said Dr. Benes once, "have always come from the South; but
Vienna can never deliver them unless she has the strength of Germany
behind her.”
Allies TO EVACUATE RUHR (From New York Times of June 24).--
Paris, June 23.-The Council of Ministers today approved the plans of
Premier Painlevé and Foreign Minister Briand for fulfillment of the promise
given in London by Premier Herriot to evacuate the Ruhr region a year
after the Dawes plan became effective-August 15.
The retirement of the troops, according to the Cabinet's plans, will begin
at an early date, however, and it is expected that the anniversary of the
Dawes plan will see the departure of the last French and Belgian detach-
ments.
. This is another indication of the new order of things in France and
shows the firm intention of the French Government to place the fullest


  p. 1566 (#484)                      #

1566
(Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
reliance on the Dawes plan for reparations and on the League of Nations.
It is also assumed that France is confident an agreement with Germany for
the protection of the Rhine front will be effected and that the four or five
conversations in Paris and Berlin between the governments and ambassadors
of the two countries which have taken place since Tuesday of last week
when the French reply to the German offer of a compact delivered to Berlin
are considered as indications that Germany is fairly satisfied with the terms
the French offered.
DEBT NEGOTIATIONS
GREAT BRITAIN Asks SETTLEMENT.—It was announced on July 1 that
the British Government had sent a memorandum to France and all other
nations in debt to Great Britain suggesting that a date be set for opening
negotiations for settlement. The note, while couched in friendly terms,
laid down the principle that Great Britain's debts were entitled to the same
treatment accorded those of other powers.
ITALY AND UNITED STATES OPEN PARLEY.—During the last week in July
preliminary conferences were held in Washington between Treasury
officials and the Italian Ambassador over a settlement of the Italian debt
to the United States. This amounts to about $2,138,500,000, of which about
$500,000,000 represents accrued interest. Ambassador di Martino was ac-
companied by Mario Alberti, of the Credito-Italiano, as financial representa-
tive of the Italian Government. Further negotiations were postponed until
August, during which interval Mr. Alberti went to Italy to collect needed
data.
ARMS TRAFFIC AGREEMENT.-After forty-one days in session the Arms
Traffic Conference ended on June 17. The convention adopted was reported
to be entirely satisfactory to the American delegation. It was signed by
nineteen of the forty-four nations taking part, and becomes valid for each
nation upon formal ratification. On the last day protocols were added out-
lawing the use of poison gas and bacteria in warfare.
The anti-gas protocol closely adheres to the Washington five-power con-
vention. It declares that as the use in war of asphyxiating gas has been
justly condemned by the civilized world, the signatories to the protocol
agree to prohibit its employment or the use of bacteria in warfare.
The arms traffic convention purposes permitting international knowledge
of all movements of arms and war materials from one country to another
by a system of licenses and certificates and a requirement for publicity of
transfers of such arms and materials. Elaborate classifications of various
forms of arms and munitions are made. In some cases licenses or certificates
are required for exports and in other cases publicity of the exports must be
made.
FRANCE
THE WAR IN MOROCCO.—During June the military situation in Morocco
developed few changes. The Riffian offensives, although they inflicted
slight material losses, seriously injured French prestige in Morocco and
spread disaffection among the tribes under French authority. On the other
hand, the defensive policy employed by the French gave no promise of an


  p. 1567 (#485)                      #

1925]
1567
Notes on International Affairs
early end of hostilities, while the adoption of aggressive measures was made
difficult not only by complications with Spain but by the firm opposition of
the Socialist party in France. Premier Painlevé visited Fez and the
Moroccan front in the middle of June.
Conferences at Madrid between French and Spanish commissioners to
agree upon a joint policy in Morocco continued through June and promised
to extend through July. Agreement was reached upon a plan for a co-
operative blockade of the Mediterranean coast of Morocco by French and
Spanish warships to prevent smuggling of munitions to the warring tribes-
men. Although kept informed daily regarding the negotiations, and es-
pecially concerned in any agreement affecting Tangier, Great Britain did
110t take active part in the Madrid Conferences.
According to Spanish reports, the peace terms demanded by Abd-el-Krim,
leader of the Riff tribesmen, included cession of the whole Wergha valley
and recognition of the complete independence of the "Riff Free State."
CAILLAUX FINANCE MEASURES.—On June 26 Finance Minister Caillaux
introduced in the French Chamber his measures designed to relieve the
difficulties of the French Treasury and make a beginning of the con-
solidation of the floating debt. His proposals included a temporary limited
increase in circulation of 6,000,000,000 francs to meet immediate calls on
the Treasury, and a new issue of bonds at an interest lower than that on
old bonds, but with the inducement that the bonds will be paid at the gold
rate.
UNITED STATES AND LATIN AMERICA
WARNING TO MEXICO.-After conferences with James R. Sheffield.
American Ambassador to Mexico, Secretary of State Kellogg on June 12
made a public statement in which he announced that relations with Mexico
were not entirely satisfactory, that the United States Government expected
Mexico to restore properties illegally taken and to indemnify American
citizens, and that the Calles Government could have the support of the
United States only so long as it protected American lives and rights and
fulfilled its international obligations.
President Calles gave to the press a reply on June 14 declaring that
Mexico was duly carrying out her international obligations, and resenting
what he referred to as the "threat to the sovereignty of Mexico" in Mr.
Kellogg's statement. It was announced on June 24 that Ambassador
Sheffield would return to Mexico with a note specifying the complaints
of the United States over the treatment of American nationals.
NEAR EAST
REVOLUTION IN GREECE.—-On June 25, by a coup d'état without bloodshed,
General Pangalos, head of the Greek army, overthrew the Michalakopoulos
Cabinet and took over the government. Admiral Konduriotis remained
president, and General Pangalos became head of the new ministry. General
Pangalos is an ambitious soldier and strong nationalist.


  p. 1568 (#486)                      #

1568
[Aug.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
CHINA
Anti-FOREIGN DISTURBANCES.—Anti-foreign feeling in China came to a
head at Shanghai during the first week in June as a result of a strike in a
Japanese cotton mill, which quickly spread to other factories, and was
encouraged by students and radical political agitators. A general strike
was proclaimed. The movement spread to other cities and threatened to
develop into a nation-wide uprising against foreigners. On June 16 W. W.
Mackenzie, a British engineer, was shot and killed near Shanghai, and on
the following day a British motorcycle policeman of the foreign concession
was mobbed and seriously injured.
At Canton the situation was complicated by warfare between two factions
of the former followers of Sun Yat Sen, the conservative group, the
Yunnanese, being finally driven out of the city by the radical faction. On
June 23 it was reported that British and French machine guns had been
used against Chinese demonstrators who threatened the foreign concession,
and on the following day a French merchant was killed and several
foreigners injured.
Both the French and the British Governments lodged protests against
the killing of their citizens, and strong notes were presented to the Chinese
Government by the diplomatic corps at Peking.
On July 1, when the situation in China had apparently become quieter,
it was announced at Washington that the American State Department was
considering with other powers the advisability of holding in the near future
an international conference on Chinese problems, to consider especially the
surrender of extra-territorial privileges and to permit China to raise the
customs rates on foreign goods. According to the terms of the Nine Power
Treaty negotiated in Washington in 1921, a customs conference to permit
increased duties must be held in China within three months after all nations
had ratified the treaty.
RATIFICATION OF CHINESE TREATIES.—On July 1 Foreign Minister Briand
before a committee of the French Chamber strongly urged immediate
ratification by France of the pending treaties relating to China. Up to
this time France was the only nation that had withheld ratification, with
the motive, apparently, of forcing the Chinese Government to full payment
in gold francs of the French share of the Boxer indemnity. According
to press reports, however, this indebtedness had been settled by an arrange-
ment between the French and Chinese Governments by which China agreed
to a loan-equivalent to a subsidy on account of the low interest-to the
bankrupt French Banque Industrielle de Chine. Complete ratification of the
Chinese treaties would be followed by a customs conference pledged to
grant China an increase of the Chinese tariff rates from 772 per cent to 122
per cent, thus providing the Chinese Government with essential revenues.


  p. 1568 (#487)                      #

SPECIAL NOTICE
Naval INSTITUTE Prize Essay, 1926
A prize of two hundred dollars with a gold medal, and a life member-
ship in the Institute (unless the author is already a life member, in which
case he will receive the commuted value thereof), is offered by the Naval
Institute for the best essay submitted on any subject pertaining to the naval
profession.
The following rules will govern this competition :
1. The award of the prize to be made by the Board of Control, voting
by ballot and without knowledge of the names of the competitors.
2. Each competitor to send his essay to the Secretary-Treasurer
in a sealed envelope marked "Prize Essay Contest.” The name of the
writer shall not appear on the essay, but instead thereof a motto. Accom-
panying the essay a separate sealed envelope will be sent to the Secretary-
Treasurer, with the motto on the outside and the writer's name and
motto inside. This envelope will not be opened until after the decision of
the board. Essays must be received on or before January 1, 1926.
3. In addition to the “Naval Institute Prize," one or more essays may
receive “Honorable Mention,” if of sufficient merit to justify that award;
or, in the event that no essay is adjudged of sufficient merit to receive the
“Prize," the best essay submitted may receive "Honorable Mention" in
lieu thereof.
4. In case one or more essays receive “Honorable Mention" the writers
thereof will each receive a prize, the amount of such awards to be de-
cided by the Board of Control in each case.
5. Announcement of awards will be made as soon as practicable after
January 1, 1926.
6. Essays awarded the "Naval Institute Prize" or "Honorable Men-
tion" will be published in the NAVAL INSTITUTE PROCEEDINGS as soon as
practicable. Essays not awarded a prize may be published at the discretion
of the Board of Control, and the writers of such articles shall be com-
pensated at the established rate for articles not submitted in competition.
7. Articles should be limited to twenty (20) printed pages in the Pro-
CEEDINGS (approximately 8,000 words), but shorter articles will receive
equal consideration.
8. In the event of the prize being awarded to the winner of a previous
year, a gold clasp suitably engraved will be given in lieu of the medal.
9. All essays must be typewritten, and submitted in duplicate.
H. A. BALDRIDGE,
Captain, U.S.N., Secretary-Treasurer.


  p. 1568 (#488)                      #

1925]
1571
Secretary's Notes
Address of
In the past, many errors have resulted from the
habit of changing an officer's address as soon
Members
as his transfer orders are published in the papers.
No change will be made in the future except upon receipt of
notification by the member concerned. Reliance upon the former
method may, in extreme cases, mean a delay of almost four
months. To insure the prompt delivery of the PROCEEDINGS and
other communications from the U. S. Naval Institute, it is essen-
tial that members and subscribers notify the Secretary-Treasurer
without delay of every change of address. No responsibility can
be accepted for failure to receive the PROCEEDINGS, where mem-
bers fail to comply with this rule. Changes of address should
reach the Institute by the 23rd of the month, to be effective for the
issue of the PROCEEDINGS of the following month.
The Naval Institute is desirous of obtaining sev-
Wanted:
eral copies of Luce's Seamanship (any edition),
Luce's
and would appreciate it if anyone having same
Seamanship
would communicate with the Secretary-Treas-
urer, stating edition, condition, and price desired.
H. A. BALDRIDGE,
Captain, U. S. Navy, Secretary-Treasurer.


  p. 1568 (#489)                      #

BOOK REVIEW
THE TESTING OF HIGH SPEED INTERNAL COM-
BUSTION ENGINES. By Arthur W. Judge. D. Van
Nostrand Company, New York. $7.50 net.
The use of the internal combustion engine today is so universal, and it
has become so intimately associated with our daily lives that most of us
accept its development as a matter of course.
The high standard of efficiency and reliability of the modern internal
combustion engine is in a large measure due to the time and labor spent
in research and test work in the laboratory and on the apparatus of which
the internal combustion engine is the prime mover.
Much time and labor can be saved, and the value of tests and researches
increased if one can use in part the experience of previous investigators.
The author of this volume, due to his vast and varied experience, is
eminently fitted to guide and advise investigators in this kind of work.
The book is intended primarily for internal combustion engineers, manu-
facturers, motor engineers, test and laboratory assistants, students and
others who have to deal with engine tests. Much of the subject matter is of
a fairly elementary nature. For the advanced worker and research en-
gineer a general survey of the subject is given, copiously supplemented with
footnote references to original papers and results, and also with a bibli-
ography.
There are twelve chapters, a bibliography and four appendices as follows:
Chapter I, General Principles ; Chapter II, Test Procedure; Chapter III,
Fuel Tests and Exhaust Gas Analysis ; Chapter IV, Measurement of Air
Supply; Chapter V, Water Supply and Heat Measurements; Chapter VI,
Measurement of Brake Horse Power; Chapter VII, Pressure Measure-
ments; Chapter VIII, Indicator Diagrams: Chapter IX, Temperature
Measurements ; Chapter X, Automobile Testing; Chapter XI, Aircraft
Tests; Chapter XII, The Analysis of High Frequency Movements;
Appendix I, Formulae Used in Test Calculations; Appendix II, S. A. E.
Testing Forms; Appendix III, Air Ministry Schedule of Standard Type
and Production Tests for Aircraft Engines; Appendix IV, The Calculation
of the Quantity of Air which Passes through a Throttle Plate.
The various subjects are well presented in a book of 384 pages, pro-
fusely illustrated with excellent cuts and diagrams.
G. B.


  p. 1568 (#490)                      #

SECRETARY'S NOTES
The Institute desires articles of interest to all branches
Articles of the service, including the reserve force. Non-
members as well as members may submit articles, and
authors receive due compensation for articles published. Com-
pact, well digested articles are more likely to be accepted for
early publication. In accepting articles for publication, the In-
stitute reserves the right to have such articles revised or rearranged,
where necessary, in order to bring them up to the required stand-
ard of articles published in the PROCEEDINGS—the cost, if any, to
be deducted from the compensation due the author.
Contributors are requested to observe the following special in-
structions in preparing articles for the PROCEEDINGS:
(a) In writing names of ships put only the initial letters in
capitals and underscore the names. The underscoring sig.
nifies to the printer that the word is to be in italics. The
same applies to names of publications. Foreign words not
anglicized should also be italicized.
(b) In preparing tables and computations employing fractions,
sub-numbers, etc., do by hand that part which cannot be
made perfectly clear by the typewriter.
(c) In typing the script use double space between lines.
(d) When a quotation is included in an article the editor should
be assured by appropriate notation that the writer has care-
fully verified the quotation as presented,
Discussion of articles published in the PROCEED-
Discussions Ings is cordially invited. Discussions accepted
for publication are paid for at approximately
one-half the rate for original articles.
Book
Reviews
As soon as practicable after the publication of books
on subjects of professional interest, the Institute
aims to publish authoritative reviews of them.


  p. 1568 (#491)                      #

United States
rary
Naval Institute
Proceedings
| VOL. 51
SEPTEMBER, 1925
NO. 271


INS
40
VAL
NA
STI
NAVAL
ACADEMY
U.S.
TUTA
ODENS
1873
SCIENTIA
CONTENTS
Excellence of Naval Material.-Craven
Aviation at the Naval Academy.–Baldridge .
Naval Aviation Training.-Raby. .
Aviation in Coast Defense.—Johnson
Star Identification Diagram.—Burkhead and Benson .
The Bridge Across the Atlantic. Stirling . .
The Nation in Arms and National Doctrine.-Scammell
Possible Improvements in Our Gunnery Training.-Blandy
The Panama Canal's Biggest Ship.-Hinds
Graphical Aids to Navigation.—Mason . . . . .
A Home-made Planisphere.-Wood . . .
A Mooring Board Problem.-Gatch . .
Retardation of Ships' Speed Due to Turning.-Me
Discussion . . . . . . . .
Professional Notes :
Notes on International Affairs .
Book Reviews :
Secretary's Notes .
. . .
1573
1632
1646
1652
1667
1669
1684
1696
1703
1707
1710
1716
1719
1723
1753
1799
1806
1815
.


  p. 1568 (#492)                      #

It Was The Idea Of Progress That
Brought The Naval Institute
Into Being
Columbus was a dreamer—but behind his dreams there was a
definite practical purpose. The wealth of Cathay, the spices and
perfumes of the East Indies were at the feet of the man to dis-
cover a new route to those lands. Intense study and a logical
process of reasoning had convinced Columbus that this planet upon
which we live is round. His was a mind years in advance of his
times. It was difficult to convince men of the soundness of his
project and the means for the accomplishment of his dream were
impossible to obtain for a long period. But, it was his idea which
gave this man the unbounded courage and untiring perseverance
to accomplish a quest even greater than that which he had
anticipated.
It was this idea of seeing beyond the times that led to the
organization of the Naval Institute. In the Navy, perhaps, more
than in any other profession, men with vision and far-sightedness
are needed. It is only by study, exchange of ideas, and an ability
to impart our ideas to others that any progress is made. For this
reason the Naval Institute has, through the publication of its
PROCEEDINGS, always encouraged officers to think along naval lines
and helped them to present their ideas to the Navy in a suitable
form. Articles in the PROCEEDINGS have been forerunners of
many of the great improvements in our Navy. But Progress
demands that we never stand still. The Naval Institute dreams
of greater advancement in years to come.
To accomplish the maximum amount of good it is desired that
every officer in the Navy be a member of the Naval Institute and
a subscriber to the PROCEEDINGS. To advance with one's pro-
fession one must keep acquainted with every move in that pro-
fession. The Naval Institute offers to officers of the Navy the
simplest method of doing this. The annual membership dues are
$3.00 (including subscription to the PROCEEDINGS). A check
payable to the Secretary of the Naval Institute, Annapolis, Mary-
land, will bring immediate attention.
The above was written by Midshipman (now Ensign) Harry Wagner of
the class of 1925, U.S.N.A., who won first prize for the most acceptable
advertisement for the Naval Institute to appear in the 1925 Lucky Bag.
The Lucky Bag staff, ineligible in the contest, determined the prize winner.


  p. 1568 (#493)                      #

United States
Naval Institute
Proceedings
September, 1925
Edited by H. A. Baldridge

IN
ST
VA I
TU
U.S.NL
1873
U. S. Naval Institute
Publication Office: Menasha, Wisconsin
Editorial and Business Office: Annapolis, Maryland


  p. 1568 (#494)                      #


11214, Twin Pop Safety Valve
Any valve or fitting
for any ships
CRANE
Address all inquiries to Crane Co., Chicago
GENERAL OFFICES: CRANE BUILDING, 836 S. MICHIGAN AVENUE, CHICAGO
Branches and Sales Offices in One Hundred and Fifty Cities
National Exhibit Rooms: Chicago, New York, Atlantic City, San Francisco and Montreal
Works: Chicago, Bridgeport, Birmingham, Chattanooga, Trenton and Montreal
CRANE EXPORT CORPORATION: NEW YORK, SAN FRANCISCO, SHANGHAI
CRANE LIMITED: CRANE BUILDING, 886 BEAVER HALL SQUARE, MONTREAL
CRANE-BENNETT, LTD., LONDON
CW CRANE: PARIS, NANTES, BRUSSELS


  p. 1569 (#495)                      #

UNITED STATES
NAVAL INSTITUTE
PRO CE E DINGS
WHOLE No. 271
Vol. No. 51, No. 9
SEPTEMBER, 1925
1606
Contents
EXCELLENCE OF NAVAL MATERIAL By LIEUTENANT COM-
MANDER F. S. CRAVEN, U. S. Navy....
1573
AVIATION AT THE NAVAL ACADEMY. BY CAPTAIN H. A.
BALDRIDGE, U. S. Navy..
1632
NAVAL AVIATION TRAINING. BY CAPTAIN JAMES J. Raby,
U. S. NAVY ..............
1646
AVIATION IN Coast DEFENSE. By CAPTAIN A. W. JOHNSON,
U. S. NAVY ........
1652
STAR IDENTIFICATION DIAGRAM. BY MIDSHIPMAN (NOW
ENSIGN) L. H. BURKHEAD AND MIDSHIPMAN (NOW EN-
SIGN) W. H. BENSON, U. S. Navy ..... ......... 1667
The BRIDGE ACROSS THE ATLANTIC. BY CAPTAIN YATES
STIRLING, JR., U. S. NAVY ......
R., U. S. NAVY ........................... 1669
THE NATION IN ARMS AND NATIONAL DOCTRINE, BY MAJOR
J. M. SCAMMELL, INF. O. R. C. ..................... 1684
PossIBLE IMPROVEMENTS IN OUR GUNNERY TRAINING. By
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER W. H. P. BLANDY, U. S.
NAVY ............
.........
The PANAMA CANAL's Biggest Ship. By CAPTAIN A. W.
HINDS, U. S. Navy ........
1703
GRAPHICAL AIDS TO NAVIGATION. BY LIEUTENANT W. A.
MASON, U. S. Navy .......
1707
A HOME-MADE PLANISPHERE. BY CAPTAIN ALBERT N.
Wood, U. S. Navy, RETIRED ......
...........
1710
A MOORING BOARD PROBLEM. By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER
T. L. Gatch, U. S. Navy
1716
RETARDATION OF SHIPS' SPEED DUE TO TURNING. BY EN-
SIGN W. K. MENDEN HALL, JR., U. S. Navy .......... 1719
DISCUSSION ................................
...........
1723
PROFESSIONAL NOTES ..........
NOTES ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS ....
1799
Book REVIEWS ................
................
SECRETARY'S NOTES...........
..... 1815
The writers only are responsible for the contents of their respective articles
Editor, Captain H. A. Baldridge; Assistant Editor, Lieutenant Com.
mander R. S. Field.
Published monthly at 450 Ahnaip St., Menasha, Wis.
Executive, Editorial, and Business Offices, U. S. Naval Institute,
Annapolis, Md.
Entered as second-class matter at the post-office at Menasha, Wis.,
April 4, 1922, and at the post-office at Annapolis, Md., under Act of Aug. 24,
1912. Acceptance for mailing at the special rate of postage provided for
in section 1103, Act of Oct. 3, 1919, authorized Mar. 13, 1922.
Membership dues (including Proceedings), $3.00 a year.
Subscription Rates, $5.00 a year. (Foreign postage extra.) Single
copics, 50c.
Copyright, 1925, by U. S. Naval Institute
....
806
...........................


  p. 1570 (#496)                      #

OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTE
President
REAR ADMIRAL HENRY B. WILSON, U. S. Navy
Vice-President
REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD H. JACKSON, U. S. Navy
Secretary-Treasurer
Cap;AIN H. A. BALDRIDGE, U. S. Navy
Board of Control
REAR ADMIRAL HENRY B. WILSON, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD H. JACKSON, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
BRIGADIER GENERAL GEORGE RICHARDS, U. S. MARINE CORPS
Captain W. T. CLUVERIUS, U. S. Navy
Captain W. G. DUBOSE, (CC), U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN P. B. DUNGAN, U. S. Navy
COMMANDER BYRON McCANDLESS, U. S. Navy
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER W. G. GREENMAN, U. S. Navy
Captain H. A. BALDRIDGE, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
PAST PRESIDENTS
ADMIRAL DAVID D. PORTER, U. S. Navy, 1873
REAR ADMIRAL JOHN L. WORDEN, U. S. Navy, 1874
REAR ADMIRAL C. R. P. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1875-78
COMMODORE FOXHALL A. PARKER, U. S. Navy, 1878-79
REAR ADMIRAL JOHN RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1879-82
REAR ADMIRAL C. R. P. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1882-83
REAR ADMIRAL THORNTON A. JENKINS, U. S. Navy, 1883-85
REAR ADMIRAL EDWARD SIMPSON, U. S. Navy, 1885-87
REAR ADMIRAL STEPHEN B. LUCE, U. S. Navy, 1887-08
REAR ADMIRAL WM. T. SAMPSON, U. S. Navy, 1898-1902
REAR ADMIRAL H. C. TAYLOR, U. S. Navy, 1902-04
REAR ADMIRAL C. F. GOODRICH, U. S. Navy, 1904-09
REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD WAINWRIGHT, U. S. Navy, 1909-11
REAR ADMIRAL BRADLEY A. FISKE, U. S. Navy, 1911-23
Rear ADMIRAL WILLIAM L. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1923-24


  p. 1571 (#497)                      #



  p. 1572 (#498)                      #


Bureau of Aeronautics Photo
F-5.L Type of Sea Plane in Which Midshipmen at the Naval Academy Receive Practical Flight INSTRUCTION


  p. 1573 (#499)                      #

UNITED STATES
NAVAL INSTITUTE
PRO CE E D I N GS
Vol. No. 51, No. 9 SEPTEMBER, 1925 WHOLE No. 271
EXCELLENCE OF NAVAL MATERIAL
TRODUCTION
By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER F. S. Craven, U. S. N.
I. INTRODUCTION
THE present paper comprises: first, a study of the factors
which determine material excellence in order to isolate its
principles; second, an examination of our existing material
agencies in the light of these principles; finally, resultant sug-
gestions for improving the agencies and their methods in order
to secure higher quality of our naval material.
By quality is meant both military (functional) and operational
suitability for war. By naval material is meant ships and their
appurtenances. Aircraft would be included.
The reason excellence of naval material has especially engaged
the writer's attention is because it now appears to be the deter-
mining factor of naval superiority. The two other factors,
namely, quantity of material and excellence of personnel, appear
too rigid in character to be determinants, for reasons which
follow.
In the factor of quantity of material we have been restricted
by the Limitation of Armament Treaty in the major types of
ships. It assures us no more than approximate numerical equality
at the logical point of contact.
As regards excellence of personnel, whereas we may naively
consider ourselves superior in intelligence, we should realize that
our short term of enlistment necessarily renders us inferior in
training. Those in a position to know, state that our industrial


  p. 1574 (#500)                      #

Chart I
CONCEPTION
DESIGN
PRODUCTION
MAINTENANCE
1. Maintenance re. 1. Design secures in 1. Mutual interchange
ports troubles. formation furnished of useful technica!
2. Maintenance re-
by Maintenance to experiences.
Conception through 2. Production
ports cases of ex-
does
Record's Office.
ceptionally good
work for Mainte-
service.
2. Design does special nance when its
work for Mainte-
3. Conception must
quantity or special
nance when re-
authorize all altera-
nature requires or
quested.
permits.
tions, after first
considering their
effect with aid of
Design.
PRODUCTION
1. Production keeps 1. Production requests
Conception
I explanations
formed of its capa 1 points not clear in
bilities and limita general designs.
tions.
2. Production informs
Design of imprac-
ticabilities encoun-
tered,
3. Detailing of de-
signs must suit
productive require.
ments.
1. Design makes
"studies" to assist
process of concep-
tion,
2. Conception super-
vises general design
work and standards.
DESIGN
CHART I
Illustrates Interaction Required Between the
Functions Whereby Naval Material Is
Developed, as Described in
Article on
EXCELLENCE OF NAVAL MATERIAL
by
F. S. Craven, U.S.N.
15 March, 1925.


  p. 1575 (#501)                      #

Chart II
THE PRESIDENT
CONGRESS
THE
SECRETARY
L
OF THE
NAVY
PROFESSIONAL,
COUNSEL
POLITICAL
Assistant
SECRETARY
PLAISOM
WAYS
GENERAL
BOARD
MEANS
REVIEW
OF
FINANCE
ESTIM. ACCTO
JAN AND PLANS
GRATING LANS
MATERIAL
PLANS
)
O'N
CNM
SUPERIOR GROUP
TACTICS STRATEGY
STAFF
O
CHART
C.NM.
BUDGET
WAYS
AND
MEANS
TECNNICAL
RESOURC
ELEMENTS
AUXILIARY
FUNCTIONS
WEAPONS!
DIVISION
OF
NAVAL
MATERIAL
INSPECTION
MAINTCE PROD'TION
SUPERVISION OF
FUNCTIONAL
DESION
RECORD
OFFKE
BUR. MAINTENANCE
BUA. PRODUCTION
BUR OF DESIGN
DIVISION
OF
NAVAL
OPERATIONS
ADMINISTRATION
PLANS + ADMIN.
SHIP DESIGN
FABRICATION
HEAVY
SNIPS
ZIGNT
SNIPS
SUB's
AIRCRAFT
CASTINGS
FORGINGS
MY, MACNC
L. MACN&
SHEET MET
NON-METC
HY. SNITS
LT. SHins
Auxiline's
Suo's
JAJRCRAFT
YARDS
MINOR ASSEMAS
STEAM
MACNIN'YI
ELECTA2
MACNINY
AIRCRAFT
Rull:
Aprol:
ORDNANCE
HEAVY
SNPS
LIGHT
SMIPS
Sue's
TVZETTS
TINYPIN
Nowo
plynur
Equimoda
Commun
A
ENGINES
SPECIAL
DEVICES
***
DETAILING
MAJOR ASSEMO'S
THE
REPAIR SHIPS
PROPUL. M.
ORDNANCE
SF. CONTROL
COMMUN'S
Equipe
AERON'Z
7701
TO SUIT
ALLOCATION
FOR
MODATI
La
FLEET
SNIPS
AIRCRAFT
IN917
SHIPS
Suo's
ERECTING +
SHIP BUILDING
YARD
FACILITIES
TESTING
FACILITIES
PROCUREMENT
STORAGE
FS.CRAVEN
U.S.N
EXCELLENCE OF NAVAL MATERIAL
EXPERIMTAL
FACILITIES
-COOAPINATION
COOPERATION
TECMICAL
Suri Arison
INSPECTION
19 MARCH 1993


  p. 1576 (#502)                      #

1576
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
prosperity and the natural ambition of our youth preclude longer
enlistments. The product of superior intelligence and inferior
training cannot result in more than equality with the personnel
of the other large navies.
Material quality, therefore, is the only unlimited variable.
II. Basic CONSIDERATIONS
Naval material is developed through the direct action of con-
ception, design, and production and the indirect participation of
operation and maintenance. The last two, through observing
service performance of material, gain information necessary to
the others. These five functions are the natural bases for fur-
ther analysis, and therefore will be defined at this point.
Conception is the mental process whereby strategical, tactical,
and operational requirements of the fleet are resolved into charac-
teristics for naval material. The first phase of conception, there-
fore, is composition of the fleet. Characteristics of ships, which
naturally develop from it, should, in turn, determine the military
and operational characteristics of the elements of which ships are
composed.
Design is the technical visualization of conception. It embodies
the desired characteristics in a form which will permit manufac-
ture of the material.
Production is the materialization of design, and therefore, like-
wise, of conception. It is the process whereby the mechanism is
built, and consists not only of fabrication of the parts but their
assembly and adjustment; also test of the completed device.
Maintenance is the upkeep of naval material. It involves not
only keeping material in condition but keeping it up to date.
Thus it includes alterations, repairs, and the care of material in
operation.
Operation is the use of naval material. Essentially, this means
its use at sea, in training and in war.
Operation is the competent judge of functional and operational
excellence—that is, how well the material fulfills its purposes.
Maintenance is the competent judge of technical excellence and
to some extent, as will appear, of minor functional excellence.
Thus, the lessons learned by operation and maintenance are
necessary to the progress of both conception and design.


  p. 1577 (#503)                      #

1925)
1577
Excellence of Naval Material
III. CONCEPTION ..
Composition of the Fleet.—Composition of the fleet can be prop-
erly derived only through a comprehensive study of the probable
nature of our possible wars, from the standpoints of strategy, tac-
tics and logistics, together with coordinate consideration of the
trend of scientific development. These considerations enable us to
work out the essential qualities and types of ships we require.
The military qualities of ships are the essential determinants of
excellence of naval material because, although excellence of design
and construction will intensify the quality of well conceived ships,
it cannot rectify the military deficiencies of poorly conceived ones.
Factors Which Determine Composition of the Fleet.—The fac-
tors which determine composition of the fleet are of two general
classes, direct and indirect.
The direct factors are tactical, strategical, and logistical in char-
acter, and may be considered in related groups. The superior
group consists of the tactical handling of ships in battle and the
strategical use of naval forces to attain war objectives. The weap-
ons group, chiefly tactical in character, consists of the technique of
the four essential weapons: namely, gunnery, bombing, torpedo
control, and mining. The auxiliary functions group, which is both
tactical and strategical in character, consists of communications,
ship control, and ship propulsion. The elemental group consists
of personnel, supplies, including fuel and food, and material
maintenance.
The two factors comprised in the superior group are complex,
involving applications of most of the simpler factors.
The superior factor of tactics tends to develop ships for tactical
applications. It would classify them in two categories: namely,
primary types, which are the carriers of the four essential weap-
ons, and secondary types, which aid the tactical application or
supplement the protection of the weapon carriers. Battleships,
aircraft carriers (rather than aircraft themselves), torpedo vessels
including submarines, and mine layers are the present-day tactical
primary types. The secondary tactical types include battle cruisers,
light cruisers, destroyer leaders, mine sweepers, and aircraft.
The other superior factor, strategy, tends to develop ships for
strategical applications, such as scouting, distant screening, con-


  p. 1578 (#504)                      #

1578
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The indirect factors consist of the nature of foreign fleets, war
voying, and commerce destroying, and the logistic functions of
supplying and maintaining a fleet.
plans, scientific progress, and money.
From all foreign fleets we can learn valuable lessons, but the
fleet of our most probable enemy should be the concrete basis of
comparison for our fleet. It may have certain characteristics ac-
centuated to an extent that we cannot safely overlook, or others
inadequately developed, providing opportunities we should not
ignore. Yet we must also provide against the possibility that we
have selected the wrong fleet.
War plans are the primary guides to strategical and logistical
requirements because they have regard to the peculiar problems
of oceans, distances, and economic and psychological resources, as
well as existing fleets of possible enemies. But here, too, we must
have regard to a possible mistake in selecting the paramount war
plan.
Scientific progress is the active means of material advance. It
has two functions: one, to discover and develop naval applications
of technical advances, the other to develop technical solutions for
naval conceptive problems. It is the herald of those revolutionary
material changes which sometimes confer such marked advantage
on their initiators.
Money is the wherewithal for building ships. It equals the
product of quantity and quality. It is on the side of the cheap
weapon rather than the effective weapon; therefore it should be
regarded as a misleading and negative factor. Surrender to the
limitations of money is as dangerous a compromise as any.
The Agency for Determining Composition of the Fleet.—The
logical organization of the agency for determining composition of
the fleet is in accordance with the relations of the foregoing fac-
tors. That is, each group of factors should be represented by
competent personnel. There should be six groups, as follows:
1. The superior group, representing the tactical handling of
naval forces and strategy.
2. The weapons group, representing gunnery, bombing, tor-
pedo control, and mining.
3. The auxiliary functions group, representing ship propulsion,
ship control and communications.


  p. 1579 (#505)                      #

1925)
1579
Excellence of Naval Material
4. The elemental group, representing personnel, supplies, and
material maintenance.
5. The scientific or technical group, representing naval archi-
tecture, marine engineering, ordnance engineering, electrical en-
gineering, aeronautics, chemistry, optics, and perhaps the other
branches of science.
6. The financial group, representing productive and operational
costs, and available funds.
These groups would provide personnel properly fitted to con-
sider enemy fleets, war plans, and other factors not specifically
indicated. The personnel in each group should consist of special-
ists in the several subjects covered by it. By this is not meant
officers who “know it all,” but rather, trained officers who, through
having specialized, will know where to look for their information
and how to interpret it intelligently.
The superior group should constitute the primary motive element
of the agency. It would call on the other groups for information
and for assistance in working out problems of detail.
However, the minor groups should be motive in developing new
conceptions within their special spheres of activity. They should
present and support their respective ideas before the superior
group.
Conflicting Requirements.-Conflicting demands of the minor
groups for weight and space in ships, and even for special types
of ships, can readily be foreseen. Even more serious conflicts can
be foreseen between the rival requirements of tactics and strategy
in the superior group. As will be demonstrated, these tendencies
toward conflict are blessings in disguise if properly handled, and
prospects of serious danger if not.
Tendencies toward conflict produce opposition. This forces each
side to develop essentials and eliminate non-essentials in order to
strengthen its case. It is the method of handling opposition which
determines whether it shall help or harm, in its present application.
There are two methods, coordination and cooperation.
Coordination versus Cooperation.—Coordination is decision by
control. It enables a competent leader, after hearing all sides, to
point out their respective weaknesses, and after the proponents of
the conflicting views have remedied the weaknesses in their re-
spective propositions, the leader, by virtue of his control, can reach


  p. 1580 (#506)                      #

1580
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
a decision between them or prepare a composite solution. This
should result in well articulated and homogeneous plans because
they will have been developed by a single, fully informed mind.
Coordination, therefore, implies a recognized leader.
Cooperation is decision by mutual agreement. Thus, there is no
recognized leader, and the proponents of conflicting requirements
function as a committee. To reach an agreement the committee
members must mutually concede the points not imperative to their
respective necessities, or else one member must attain virtual,
though unrecognized, leadership.
Virtual leadership in a committee can result through several
causes, such as energy, ability, rank or dominance of personality.
The only correct one of these is ability. It is therefore evident
that virtual leadership of this sort is a gamble and is unsafe to
risk. One of its chief objections is that responsibility cannot be
attached to an unrecognized leader.
Nor can responsibility be effectively attached to a committee as
a whole, since no member can safely be held responsible for what
may have been put through against his objections.
Decision by mutual concessions lacks a central idea. The de-
terminants naturally tend to become weight, space, cost, and other
concrete considerations rather than the abstract and more impor-
tant ones of homogeneity and the intensification of primary qual-
ities at the expense of minor ones. Thus, brilliance of conception
generally will be lacking, the tendency being toward mediocrity.
This will be true even if the committee members are very able
men. In fact, intensifying their abilities tends to lower the quality
of their decisions, because increased imagination tends to project
farther ahead, begetting over-development of specialties. Thus,
decisions reached by an able committee tend to resemble the sum-
mation of several divergent forces to secure a resultant force which
may be less than the least of them.
Conception Both Brilliant and Sound.—Conception, obviously,
must be brilliant, if we are to secure excellence of naval material,
but also, it must be sound. For brilliance we require decision
through control, or, in other words, a leader as opposed to a com-
mittee. For soundness this solution does not appear so desirable.
It may quite properly be contended that the co-existence of imag-
ination and sound judgment in a single personality is exceptional.


  p. 1581 (#507)                      #

1925]
1581
Excellence of Naval Material
Perhaps the Navy is a too small organization to have always avail-
able an officer so exceptionally gifted and otherwise qualified that
he could be entrusted with conception without fear of unsoundness.
There is a fortunate solution: Whereas a committee is unsatis-
factory to initiate conception, it is eminently fitted to examine a
completed conception for soundness. Having several points of
view its members will naturally tend to interpret the conception
differently. By discussion these differences will be mutually con-
sidered and other possibilities will be brought to mind. Cooperative
application of imagination and intelligence now becomes highly
desirable in order that a brilliant conception may be appreciatively
considered and that criticisms may be constructively expressed.
The very faults previously found in a committee become positive
virtues when it is used as a board of review for conceptions.
The Serious Nature of Conceptive Mistakes.—The importance
of a correct solution of conceptive problems, especially major
conceptive problems, cannot be over-estimated. This importance
is due partly to the dangerous permanence of conceptive mistakes
and partly to the fact that their existence may not be realized.
Permanence of conceptive mistakes derives from the great cost
and long peace-time lives of ships, and the money and time re-
quired to rectify serious mistakes discovered in them.
Failure to realize the existence of such mistakes is due to the
fact that they may be relative rather than absolute. For instance,
mediocrity of conception, when opposed to brilliance, becomes a
relative mistake which may be revealed only in battle. The aston-
ishing destruction of British battle cruisers at Jutland is an excel-
lent example. Such mistakes are perhaps more deadly for being
less evident.
Relative mistakes result from avoidable compromises and from
failure to visualize battle conditions. Imagination and specialized
knowledge are required to combat the former and avoid the latter.
These are the attributes which are inherent in the conceptive
agency which has been outlined. Its board of review is the safe-
guard against absolute mistakes.
The Nature of the Conceptive Agency.—Thus, we may sum-
marize the logical conceptive agency as a leader with imaginative
specialized assistants and a board of review.


  p. 1582 (#508)                      #

1582
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
But once again we encounter opposition—that between the
leader and the board. Decision cannot be safely left to either,
because normally the leader would tend too much toward revolu-
tion and the board too much toward conservatism. Should they
be unable to agree, decision obviously should be referred to their
common superior, the Secretary of the Navy. But, as he is a
civilian, not competent alone to decide, he would naturally secure
advice from other competent sources, namely the feet, the Chief
of Naval Operations, and the Naval War College.
Deriving Composition of the Fleet.—With this ultimate safe-
guard established, we may now consider the process of deriving
composition of the fleet. The first step, naturally, should be re-
search. The representatives of all specialties should become
investigators in their respective lines, gathering, codifying, and
digesting information. They would study history, war plans,
Naval and Army War College analyses, intelligence reports of
foreign fleets, departmental manuals, fleet manuals and reports,
scientific information, and the like.
The next step should be the formulation, by all the minor
groups, of conceptive suggestions in their respective lines. The
members of the superior group could then use these suggestions in
preparing tentative general solutions of composition of the fleet
from the tactical standpoint and the strategic standpoint.
The leader would now be in a position to consider all three-the
digested data, the suggestions of the minor groups, and the con-
ceptions of the superior group. His decision would thus be well
based.
The superior group under the leader's direction should then de-
velop his plan, assigning detailed work to the appropriate minor
groups or requiring additional research or experimental work from
them when necessary.
When fully developed, the whole conception, with its explana-
tion and basic data, should be reviewed by the board, then revised
by the conceptive agency and again reviewed. This should con-
tinue until agreement be reached or decision by the Secretary be-
come necessary. In any case the Secretary would have to give final
approval.
When approved, the conception would be ready for further de-
velopment into the military, operational, and technical character-
istics of new ships and major alterations to old ones.


  p. 1583 (#509)                      #

1925)
1583
Excellence of Naval Material
A Continuous Process.-But, it should be obvious that com-
position of the fleet must change to keep abreast of progress and
to keep our Navy ahead of others in quality. Theoretically this
implies a state of continuous rather than intermittent change, be-
cause progress is continuous when viewed in all its aspects, but
in practice we cannot lay down new ships except at appreciable
intervals, or extensively alter old ones except occasionally.
If the intervals are long the relative change becomes corre-
spondingly greater. This has several bad effects. New types
vary too greatly from their predecessors for feet homogeneity,
and there would be a period of relative weakness just prior to
materialization of a change. Also, radical changes are less sound
when taken at a single step than when achieved through several
steps.
The lesson here is to make changes at frequent intervals and
in small quantities. Progressive change is growth; abrupt change
is chaos.
We see, then, that composition of the fleet should be fluid. Its
agency should be continuously employed. The steps previously
indicated as consecutive would all be going on practically con-
stantly, keeping pace with progress. Revision of conception of the
fleet would become automatic and practically continuous, yet grad-
ual. Characteristics of needed ships would always be on tap.
Personnel of the Agency.—We are prepared now to consider the
personnel of the agency. The leader is the most important ele-
ment because he is the active factor, whereas the board of review
is the factor of safety. Thus, the leader virtually controls con-
ception. He is given wide powers and a strong position. He is
fortified by possessing a well organized staff of specialized assist-
ants who, under his direction, can develop strong arguments sup-
porting his conceptions. These the board of review might
sometimes find it difficult to combat, even if unsound.
This is a considerable danger. Such a situation is not likely
to develop, but it might. The safeguard against it is responsi-
bility. The leader must accept personal responsibility for his
conceptions. Responsibility is probably the greatest deterrent
against the acceptance and materialization of radical ideas of un-
proved soundness, which is the danger to be most feared—such,
for example, as premature elevation of the aerial bomb to the
position of major weapon.


  p. 1584 (#510)                      #

1584
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
all
Radicalism Not Necessarily Brilliance. At this point it is well
to consider the relation between radicalism and what is meant in
this paper by brilliance of conception.
It might not prove to be a brilliant step to introduce a too radical
innovation even when it is perfectly sound in itself. It might do
more harm than good. The introduction of the dreadnaught is an
example. It invalidated the entire British pre-dreadnaught feet
and offered the Germans an opportunity to gain equality with
comparative ease. That the Germans did not accept this oppor-
tunity does not alter the fact.
A healthier form of brilliance is the avoidance of unnecessary
military compromises. There is a very wonderful example of this
in the development of the vertical echelon turret arrangement
whereby both broadside and end-on fire was secured for the same
guns.
Avoidance of unnecessary compromise depends on recognition
and accentuation of cardinal requisites, diminution or elimination
of nonessentials, and the incorporation of only well suited charac-
teristics in a type of ship. In other words, it results from imag-
inative and highly intelligent decision between:
a) The tactical requirement of few types to permit type versatil-
ity and few ships to promote coordination in battle ;
b) The strategical requirement of numerous ships to cover
large areas and special types for specialized functions, and
c) The previously described requirement that only well suited
characteristics should be incorporated in a type.
It is not suggested that we always should discourage new de-
partures, but for reasons indicated above, we should not favor
those which destroy existing values unless the need is imperative
and the gain certain.
The Leader.—Returning now to the leader, it is apparent with-
out further demonstration that he must be a line officer of wide
experience and demonstrated capacity.
His Active Assistants.—His assistants in the superior group
should be inferior to him only in experience. They should con-
sist of line officers of two classes—those who are especially quali-
fied in tactics and those equally qualified in strategy. Possibly one
of each type would suffice.


  p. 1585 (#511)                      #

1925]
1585
Excellence of Naval Material
The weapons group should consist of four groups of line special-
ists representing respectively, gunnery and the battleship, bombing
and the airplane carrier, torpedo control and the destroyer and
submarine, and mining and the mine layer.
The auxiliary functions group also should consist of line
specialists because their knowledge is desired as to operating re-
quirements, not as to design which would be supplied by the scien-
tific group.
The elemental group should consist of medical, supply, and line
officers. The medical representative should participate actively
to safeguard health as well as to provide for handling battle
casualties. The supply and line officers should have had extensive
experience in the duties of the feet train.
The scientific or technical group should consist of technical
specialists of the highest qualifications. The Navy would be best
served by them were they commissioned officers; therefore they
will be referred to hereafter as technical officers.
One of their important functions is to develop technical solutions
for conceptive problems. Being in touch with the trend of con-
ception they should be able to foresee these problems and so to
determine, before they become prominent, whether they can be
met. This necessitates that these officers shall have access to all
experimental facilities possessed by the Navy.
The financial group should consist of officers experienced in
cost estimating and accounting. They must be able to prepare
estimates for conceptive propositions. They obviously should be
officers of the supply corps experienced in this work.
The board of review should consist of line officers of wide gen-
eral experience. It should have at least six members in addition
to its secretary, for a reason which will develop later. The pur-
pose of this board is to ensure soundness of conceptions as regards
military and operational features rather than technical ones; there-
fore, technical personnel is not required.
Rotation of Line Personnel.—The bulk of the personnel is seen
to consist of line officers, and line officers must go regularly to sea.
Sea service is also necessary for the staff officers in the elemental
group to qualify them for this assignment.
Persistence of Policy.—However, these necessary line changes
tend to cause a serious evil which may be described as abrupt


  p. 1586 (#512)                      #

1586
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
changes in conceptive policy. This danger is most pronounced
when a change occurs in the leader because another mind thereby
takes over the control of major conception. Changes in the line
personnel of the groups under him are also dangerous because the
leader must depend upon his assistants to work out specialized
conceptive details in consistence with his major conceptions. Thus,
unless carefully broken in, new assistants might cause minor, yet
dangerous, alterations in policy.
Perhaps the most serious result of abrupt change in conceptive
policy would be disruption of homogeneity of the fleet. Such a
result would normally be possible only through an abrupt and
uncoordinated change of the conceptive leader. However, there
are other minor, though still very serious, results which might be
expected from similar changes among the personnel of the groups
of the conceptive agency.
One would be the tendency for a new specialized member to stop
developments initiated by his predecessor, the advantages of which
his unattuned mind might fail to see. This would waste time and
money, and might deprive the Navy of ultimately valuable de-
velopments.
The other would be the tendency for the new incumbent to start
premature developments of his own, induced by his sudden con-
tact with new and large problems and with so much imaginative
thought all around him. Being premature, such developments
often would be trivial and sometimes not truly relevant, tending
also to waste time and money.
A reasonable persistence of policy therefore becomes an im-
portant requirement.
Permanence of Personnel.—To secure it we require the greatest
possible permanence of personnel, consistent with sea duty, in both
the staff of the leader and in the board of review, with reasonable
overlaps in effecting changes.
This personnel permanence can be secured by a method sim-
ilar in principle to that employed in the U.S. Senate. In brief,
a third of the sea-going members of the staff of the leader, and a
third of the board of review, could be replaced each year by per-
sonnel from afloat. Such replacements should be made on a
schedule carefully worked out to prevent the simultaneous relief of
officers whose duties are closely allied.


  p. 1587 (#513)                      #

1925]
1587
Excellence of Naval Material
The leader should have a considerable overlap with his succes-
sor. It would also seem advisable that the leader should have a
two or four year assignment, so as to synchronize closely with
the incumbency of the Secretary of the Navy under whom he must
work.
This brings up the analogous point that the leader should select
the officers to come each year to his staff.
Personnel Changes in the Technical Group.—The members of
the technical group of the conceptive leader's staff are very favor-
ably situated. They are in touch with both the military problems
and the developments of science. As has already been suggested,
they therefore are competent to suggest military applications of
new technical developments as well as to find technical solutions
for problems of purely military and operational origin.
These technical officers also are situated, as will appear, to
assist actively in design and development work. This is because
their purely conceptive duties would not absorb much actual time,
and because to be eligible to perform these duties they should be
leaders in their respective lines. They therefore can be employed
with great advantage to the Navy to coordinate technical design
practices in their respective lines throughout all classes of naval
material.
Periodic changes among these officers, therefore, would be un-
desirable, as this would tend to alter the policy of technical design.
Also, when the proper technical man for a special job has been
found, the best results generally will be had if he be kept at it.
On the other hand, technical stagnation must be guarded
against. A logical solution is to allow the leader to replace mem-
bers of his technical staff, because they must work with him and
he should be sufficiently aware of their service reputations to make
a suitable choice. But, it is suggested that he should not change
more than one fourth of them in a year.
Characteristics of Ships.—The second phase of conception is
the development of ship characteristics from the military speci-
fications of composition of the fleet. That is, it marks the transi-
tion from the abstract to the concrete. In brief, it involves
preliminary ship design and includes operational as well as purely
military considerations.


  p. 1588 (#514)                      #

1588
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Development of Ship Design.--The process is about as follows:
The conceptive requirements are evolved into tentative character-
istics with the aid of general data from previous designs. Ship
designers then attempt to realize these requirements in a prelim-
inary design. This discloses possibilities and limitations. Neces-
sary readjustments are made and a modified design is developed.
The process of readjustment of requirements, with consequent
modification of design, continues until a satisfactory solution is
reached.
This solution is the general design of the ship. It is the graphic
expression of ship characteristics. The judge of its suitability
obviously should be the agency which developed the conceptive
requirements, namely, the agency which determined the com-
position of the fleet.
The conceptive agency, therefore, should be not only the judge
of final suitability but also of the necessary readjustments to meet
limitations disclosed in developing the design. Remembering that
the conceptive agency includes both technical and operative person-
nel of marked attainments, it will be evident that it is qualified to
judge these readjustments.
The process of development, as outlined above, is a series of
steps apparently taken consecutively, but there are excellent rea-
sons why they should, instead, form a continuous process. These
are as follows:
Continuous Supervision of Ship Design by Conception. If the
conceptive agency, after stating its initial requirements, should
continuously observe the development of the preliminary design
instead of waiting until it is completed to examine it, there would
result a meeting of conceptive problems as they develop. The
combined brains of the conceptive and design agencies would be
simultaneously applied to their solution. Solutions of problems
would, from the beginning, conform to the ideas of the conceptive
agency, which is the ultimate judge. Characteristics not satis-
factory to the conceptive agency would not creep unobserved into
the design.
The last mentioned tendency is due to the difficulty of conveying
to the mind of the designer exactly what the conceiver desires.
It is rendered dangerous where no continuous conceptive obser-
vation of design exists, because it is almost impossible for a person


  p. 1589 (#515)                      #

1925]
1589
Excellence of Naval Material
reviewing completed design work to realize the full significance
of some of its details.
Where the conceptive agency continuously observes design, the
preliminary design becomes a fully developed one so far as the
requirements of the conceptive agents are concerned. This would
cause a great saving of time over the trial-and-error method of
development where conception and design function consecutively
instead of together.
Checking Up on Changes. However, with this plan there is the
danger that in watching the growth of detailed design the con-
ceptive agents may fail to realize all aspects of the developments
which have been made, or of the readjustments from the original
conceptive specifications which have been found necessary. They
might "fail to see the woods for the trees.”
This danger would be met by requiring radical readjustments to
be considered by the conceptive agency as a whole, and by pre-
senting completed designs for examination to the board of review.
Consideration of readjustments by the whole conceptive agency
would prevent individual conceptive agents from tending to assume
unwarranted initiative or responsibility. This would safeguard
the relations between the conceptive agency and the design agency.
Examination of initial designs by the board of review probably
would disclose matters requiring attention; therefore initial de-
signs usually would be preliminary designs after all.
Participation by Conception in Design Work.—It is believed
that the principle has now been developed that agents of concep-
tion should continuously participate in ship design, to the extent
of watching and assisting the incorporation of military and opera-
tion features.
Conceptive Control of Ship Design.—Participation by concep-
tive agents in design developments raises the old question of co-
operation versus coordination. Should conception control design
or merely cooperate with it?
The writer believes that to this point in the analysis most of its
technical readers will have agreed with the conclusions which have
been indicated, but the suggestion of conceptive control—virtually,
line control-of technical designers may prove less acceptable.
Yet this control is really necessary for securing excellent naval
material. However, the nature of the advocated control should


  p. 1590 (#516)                      #

1590
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
not be misunderstood by either technical or line readers. There-
fore the necessity for the control will be demonstrated and its
nature carefully elaborated, trusting that the reader, in view of
this explanation, will make necessary allowances for the psycho-
logical limitations of the writer's style.
Conception must be satisfied with the product of design. Con-
ception accepts responsibility before the service for the military
and operational features of a design, and since these are the de-
terminants of naval excellence, conception must virtually accept
full responsibility for design. Therefore conception should be
able to guide and direct the activities of ship designers insofar as
military and operational matters are concerned. But this is
tantamount to control of design. Certainly it is not cooperation
with design.
There should be no question of the ability of properly selected
and trained line officers to work with technical officers to advantage
in developing designs. This is partly because line officers are the
only officers whose experience gives them first hand knowledge of
the battle and sea-going requirements of naval material. It is
partly because all line officers actually are technical officers in a
limited sense—that is, they are operative engineers, and unless
they are as good operative engineers as the technical officers are
designing engineers, the Navy will not be worthy of its purpose.
Line officers are not like automobile owners, who are always
being treated to surprises by the ingenuity of automotive designers.
They are, or at least those in conceptive positions should be,
analogous to the imaginative members of the automotive design
staff who concern themselves with studying the requirements of
the public and who direct technical designers in realizing these
requirements.
Many excellent examples of line control and supervision of de-
sign can be found in the history of fire control developments for
the Navy by the several commercial firms which specialize in this
sort of work. The designing engineers of these companies often,
through long experience, will have perhaps better ideas, in the
abstract, than will the individual line officers who supervise their
work. But, because the latter represent the controlling theory of
gunnery development, of the trend of which these civilian technical
men are necessarily somewhat uninformed, they not only defer to


  p. 1591 (#517)                      #

1925]
1591
Excellence of Naval Material
supervision by the line representatives but, in most cases, would re-
fuse to proceed without their supervision.
Technical Impracticability.-- Modifications in original. concep-
tions are often forced by technical impracticabilities which only
develop during design work. Where this impracticability is ob-
vious, modifications cannot be avoided, but where there is doubt
(of which the technical group of the conceptive agency should be a
competent judge) there will be seen an additional reason to favor
conceptive control of design. This is the fact that where imprac-
ticability is not readily admitted, the result often will be a brilliant
ultimate solution of the problem.
Conceptive Control of Technical Design.—The principle, there-
fore, appears to be established that conception should control tech-
nical design wherever conceptive requirements are involved with it.
Characteristics of Elements of Ships.—The third phase of con-
ception is the development of the characteristics of elements which
comprise ships-for example, the ordnance installation, or the
propulsive plant.
These are the component parts of ships. They represent the
great weights and volumes which must be fitted together into the
hull; but the design of these elements must be virtually completed
before a ship design can be composed of them, since the weights
and positions of their parts are required for stability calculations
and their dimensions are required for apportioning the available
space.
It will be seen, then, that it is these elements which constitute
the variables of ship design. It will be seen that most design im-
practicabilities will develop through inability to fit these elements
together in their hoped-for proportions.
Conceptive Control of Design of Elements. From this it fol-
lows that the participation of conceptive agents in ship design
necessarily involves their similar participation in the general design
of elements. All of the elements of ships have representatives in
the proposed conceptive agency, and the desired characteristics of
the ship would be compounded from the ideas of these officers as to
the form these elements should take.
Thus, conception should continuously supervise the general de-
sign of all elements of ships.


  p. 1592 (#518)                      #

1592
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Characteristics of Operational Devices.—By operational de-
vices is meant the minor operative units which comprise the ele-
ments of ships. As examples, there are gun mounts, torpedo
tubes, airplane catapults, and the steering gear.
Conceptive Control of Design of Minor Devices.- Just as de-
sign of its elements is involved in the design of the ship, so is
design of operational devices involved in the design of elements.
Conception, therefore, should extend its influence down to them,
and to the same extent.
It is in considering such details that the respective interests of
conception and technical design can be made most clear. Two
examples, of differing degree, will be given.
First consider a gun mount for a light cruiser. Conception de-
sires that the gun have a certain range, and for this it is found by
the technical designer that an angle of elevation is required of,
say, twenty degrees; but, conception knows that pointer fire may
become necessary for this gun. To secure the desired range with
pointer fire in a twenty-degree roll, an additional ten degrees of
elevation is needed. Also, if the ship is damaged a list may be
expected up to, say, five degrees. Conception, therefore, requires
that design endow the mount with an elevation up to thirty-five
degrees.
For the other example, consider arrangements for lubricating
the gun mount. After considering all the lubricating arrangements
known to design, conception selects the “alemite” or some other
system which involves the psychological principle of convenience.
This is because conception, represented by line officers, knows that
bluejackets can be driven to use grease cups but can be led to use
the "alemite” or a similar system.
We can now state a general principle affecting excellence of
naval material: namely, line officers should participate in the de-
velopment of all general designs as regards the incorporation of
military or operational features.
Line Officers Keep Out of Technical Design.-Conversely, they
should not participate as regards purely technical design matters,
because modern technical design has become so highly specialized
that in order to secure excellence the technical designer must give
his entire time to it. The alternative periods of sea duty required


  p. 1593 (#519)                      #

1925]
1593
Excellence of Naval Material
of line officers necessarily unfit them to become also technical de-
signers of the grade we require.
General Design versus Detailing.-Reference has heretofore
been to general design in order to differentiate it from detailing,
which is the final step whereby a design is prepared for production.
Thus, detailing is purely technical and marks the point at which
all conceptive line participation should stop.
Forms of Design.—We may now conveniently recognize the
existence of three forms of design: namely,
Functional design, which involves the inclusion of purely mili-
tary requisites. For example, turning radius of a hull, seaworth-
iness, protection, speed, elevation of guns, arcs of train, use of
center-line space, and the like.
Operational design, which involves the inclusion of non-military
operational requisites. For example, measures for economy of
operation or ease of upkeep, convenience or comfort of personnel,
ruggedness of equipment, and the like. Both line and technical
officers are qualified to participate in operational design, the for-
mer as to results, the latter as to their attainment and as to the
introduction of additional possibilities due to scientific progress of
which the line officer could not be aware.
Technical design, which involves matters of strength, weight,
shape, and kind of material (except where these may be affected by
legitimate functional or operational requirements) and detailing to
permit production.
Simultaneous Development of All General Designs. It has
been shown that it was better for the agents of conception and
technical design to work together in developing ship design than
for them to perform their respective functions in alternate con-
secutive steps. For identical reasons it is also better for the de-
velopment of all the general designs of a single ship to progress
more or less together under the supervision of the same conceptive
and technical personnel.
This would permit immediate adjustment all along the line to
changes found necessary at either end—that is, changes due to
technical difficulties in producing the elementary parts or to diffi-
culties encountered in getting the parts properly disposed in the
ship as a whole.


  p. 1594 (#520)                      #

1594
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Single Design Agency.—Also, this would bring all design into
a unified system coordinated and controlled by a relatively small
group of minds. The advantages of this should be apparent.
They will be fully brought out in the following section of the paper.
IV. DESIGN
Ship Design. From the viewpoint of ship design naval material
is classified as to types of ships. Aircraft would constitute two
special types in this classification.
Types of ships fall into three characteristic groups: namely,
surface ships, submarines, and aircraft. These will now be ex-
amined as to the problems they present.
Surface Ship Design.—The functional natures of the principal
elements of surface ships vary widely but the problems which
constitute technical ship design are similar. In other words, there
are wide variations in the special problems of hull, propulsive
plant, ordnance, and the like, but marked similarity in the general
calculations for stability, trim and displacement.
It follows that all surface ship design should be performed by
a single agency in order to have a centralized collection of technical
information and facilities, and to permit general application of
the available technical brains. Presumably, there would develop
subdivisions for the several distinctive types, but this would not
prevent temporary disposition of technical personnel and facilities
to the best advantage during intensified activity in certain types.
The foregoing advantages may be classified as reduction of
overhead cost, due to the ability to employ personnel and facilities
according to the distribution of the work load, and intensification
of technical excellence, due to gathering together, and applying
generally, the best brains and all of the available information.
Submarine Design. - Submarine design involves two technical
problems, one being the design for surface operation and the other
for submerged operation. The former is identical with surface
ship design.
In view of the fact that submarines must, therefore, be designed
also as surface vessels, there would be obvious advantages in add-
ing submarine design as a special section to the single agency for
surface ship design.


  p. 1595 (#521)                      #

1925)
1595
Excellence of Naval Material
Aircraft Design.—There is no direct relation between the tech-
nical problems of aircraft design and those of ship design except
the very minor problem of developing hulls of Aying boats. This
limited relation is non-essential.
But, there are obvious functional and operational design rela-
tions between heavier-than-air craft and their carriers. In order
to secure coordination rather than cooperation in these important
relations it is desirable to bring the design of heavier-than-air craft
into the same agency which designs their carriers, forming another
special section of the ship design agency.
Single Agency for All Ship Design.—Again, since lighter-than-
air craft use engines and fittings similar to those of heavier-
than-air craft, it follows that they, too, should be designed in a
special section of the centralized ship design agency. There should,
then, be a single centralized agency for all ship and aircraft design.
Design of Elements of Ships.—Elements of ships may logically
be classified in two ways. One is a combined functional and op-
erational classification and the other is technical.
The functional and operational classification consists of hull,
propulsive plant, ordnance, aeronautical equipment, fire control
equipment, ship control equipment, communications equipment,
personnel facilities, storage facilities, and “equipage." These
correspond fairly well with the operating departments of ships.
Each covers a wide range of devices which are related because
they are parts of the same system or of several systems operated
by the same branch of personnel.
The technical classification consists of naval architecture, steam
engineering, electrical engineering, mechanical engineering, hy-
draulics, ballistics, optics, aeronautics, chemistry, and perhaps
others. These are the branches of engineering science involved in
the technical development of naval materia.
There are obvious inter-relations between these classifications.
As examples, electric motors are used in ordnance and in pro-
pulsive and "equipage” devices; gear wheels, valves, and pipe
fittings are used in almost all operative classes of equipment; op-
tical devices are used for ship and fire control and for communi-
cations. Thus, these classifications inter-lock. .
Single Agency for Design of All Elements of Ships.--Applying
principles developed earlier, we remember that line representatives


  p. 1596 (#522)                      #

1596
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
from the conceptive agency should supervise functional and op-
erational design, and technical representatives should supervise
technical design. This means that simultaneous inter-locking super-
vision will be required, which can only be effective if all elements
are developed in a single agency so that coordination can replace
cooperation.
The agency can now be visualized. It would be subdivided
"vertically” into the functional and operational classes, and "hori-
zontally" into the technical classes. The line specialists of the con-
ceptive agency would supervise functional and operational design.
The actual work of design would be conducted by technical de-
signers who belong to the regular personnel of the design agency.
The technical specialists of the conceptive agency would sift
laterally through the organization, carrying out the supervision
and standardization of technical design previously described.
Benefits from this Arrangement.-We should then receive the
following benefits.
1. Coordination of functional and operational requirements of
mutually dependent devices would be effected by the line concep-
tive agents who supervise ship design as a whole. Reference is to
such matters as locating ammunition hoists, duplicating power
leads for safety on unarmored ships and routing them to the best
advantage, providing reserve sources of power, subordinating boat
stowages to gunnery requirements, safeguarding airplanes from
gun blast, and the like.
2. Similar and uniformly high grade technical characteristics
in all devices of the same technical nature would be ensured by the
technical conceptive agents. By this is meant that all electrical
equipment would be similar in the theory of its technical design,
and that mechanical appliances, such as pipe fittings, bolts and
nuts, gear wheels and the like, would be standardized very con-
siderably. Optical work would be standardized. So would many
other technical details.
The advantages would be felt in operating and maintaining the
equipment as well as in designing and producing it. Performance
would be high because the best available brains and knowledge
would be generally applied in design. Upkeep would be cheaper.
Spare parts would be generally applicable. Production would be
simplified.


  p. 1597 (#523)                      #

1925)
1597
Excellence of Naval Material
3. Flexibility of design resources would be secured. Personnel
and facilities could be allocated according to the work load. Rec-
ords would be complete and universally accessible. The best
brains would be generally available.
4. Design progress would be rapid and could be intelligently
controlled to suit the relative urgency of projects.
5. Experimental requirements could be accurately visualized,
their relative urgency determined, and the work controlled. As
has been indicated previously, the technical conceptive agents
should control experimental work.
Centralized Records.-Several references have been made to
centralized records.
Design records should include, among other things, the history
of all development and experimental work. The history of all
failures is an essential requirement. Such records would pre-
vent repetition of work. They sometimes would enable failures to
be turned into successes when scientific progress had overcome the
original obstacles. They often would permit useful applications
of principles incorporated in obsolete and forgotten devices.
These advantages represent savings of time and money as well
as intensification of knowledge, but in order to secure them the
records must be properly handled.
Handling of Records.—To prevent repetition of developments
it is necessary that all records of similar nature be brought to-
gether. They must be grouped and indexed under both functional
and operational subjects and technical ones. These requirements
can be met only through a single centralized records office with
especially qualified and trained personnel.
To permit useful application of old principles a system is neces-
sary to bring them to light at the proper time This system must
be superior to the memory of individuals.
In order that failures may become successes if still applicable,
the system must connect scientific advances with old obstacles, and
notify the personnel concerned.
Duties of Records Office.—The foregoing requirements would
be met if the personnel of the records agency include qualified
line, staff, and technical officers representing the several functional,
operational, and technical specialties, who perform the following
duties :


  p. 1598 (#524)                      #

1598
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
a) Research for the conceptive agency. This would keep them
aware of problems.
b) Records clerks for their several specialties. They would
index all intelligence reports, and reports from afloat and from
maintenance agencies, as well as reports of experiments and of de-
velopments by conceptive and design agencies. This would famil-
iarize them with new information.
c) Historians for their specialties. This requires them to relate
new developments with previous ones, studying the tendencies in-
dicated thereby. It is a continuous digestive process applied to
all data in the records, and would keep them familiar with appli-
cations of information on hand.
d) Active informative agents. They must see that the con-
ceptive and design agents are kept informed of potentially useful
matter disclosed by the records.
There would be required a permanent personnel for clerical
work which, through permanence, would serve as a link between
the necessarily changing officers described above. Line and staff
members should change at three-year intervals with considerable
overlaps. Technical members preferably should have longer
assignments. .
Experimental Work.-Experiments have also been referred to
repeatedly. Having demonstrated that all general design work
should be centralized and that development records should be cen-
tralized, it follows as a matter of common sense that experimental
work also should be centralized. This will not be completely
attainable from the physical standpoint because gun proving
ranges, which have experimental applications, cannot be close to
industrial centers, and torpedo testing ranges depend on water
conditions which must be used where found. But it is possible
• from the administrative standpoint, and many of the required ex-
perimental facilities can be centralized physically.
Shop Development of Trial Models.-Experimental work is
conception developed directly in material form. It is functional and
operational design without mandatory drafting assistance. Viewed
in the latter light, it will be clear that the technical designers actu-
ally conducting design development will often find it very advan-
tageous to work directly in experimental shops with the aid of high
class workmen. In this manner many working models of new


  p. 1599 (#525)                      #

1925]
1599
Excellence of Naval Material
devices can be fully developed without drafting assistance other
than making occasional sketches. Working drawings can be made
from the models, refining details, substituting castings for parts
hewn out of stock in producing the model, combining groups of
little parts into bigger single parts, and the like. Production can
immediately follow the detailing of these drawings, with safety.
Of course this practice is limited to small and moderate sized
developments. It is followed extensively in commercial engineer-
ing, but the necessary facilities must be immediately available to
the design agency to make it practicable. Its advantages are the
clarity with which the designer can see his problems and the re-
duction of cost. The latter would be lost unless the experi-
mental laboratory were located close to the central design agency.
Detailing.–Detailing is the process of preparing a design for
production. It is the final phase of design.
It is purely technical in character. Its primary object is to
facilitate production, and for this purpose it is necessary that the
needs of production shall be understood. The most practical and
efficient way to ascertain productive needs is to work directly with
the productive agents.
Decentralization of Detail Design.—If general designs are prop-
erly prepared they generally can be detailed without further direct
reference to the original designer, provided the detailing personnel
has been trained in the same school of design. In naval work this
would, of course, be the case.
From this it follows that detailing can safely be de-centralized.
In brief, detailing agencies should be located physically close to
the various productive agencies in order to permit efficient coor-
dination of detailing with production.
A very material additional advantage is that the centralized gen-
eral design agency can thereby be reduced very greatly in size.
This would facilitate its administration and coordination. It would
greatly promote the efficiency of simultaneous interlocking super-
vision of general design by the functional, operational and tech-
nical agents of conception.
The Design Agency as a Whole.-From what has been devel-
oped it will be apparent that there should exist a centralized design
agency for all naval material, with a few de-centralized branches.


  p. 1600 (#526)                      #

1600
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The centralized design agency should consist of a branch for
general design, a branch for experimental work, and a records
office. The first and last named elements should be situated in the
same building occupied by the conceptive agency.
The general design branch should consist of a major section for
ship design and a minor (even though more extensive) section
for the general design of elements of ships and their components.
Each of these sections should be subdivided appropriately. Each
subsection and section, and the branch as a whole, should be headed
by qualified technical officers of wide design experience.
The experimental branch should be headed by a technical offi-
cer of wide general experience. The branch should be subdivided
so as to serve the conceptive agency and the general design branch
to the best advantage. It also should assist in solving productive
problems, as will appear. The personnel should be technical.
The records office has been fully described already.
The decentralized branches would consist of the several design
detailing offices at the various productive plants, and of a partial
interest in gun proving grounds and torpedo testing ranges.
Proving grounds and torpedo ranges are not only experimental
in their use, but are largely testing stations for production. It
would be economically wasteful to have duplicate facilities because
of this mutual need, and therefore we see also a need for co-
ordination of design and production so that both can use the
same facilities of this nature.
Since production really would have the major interest in these
stations, for testing completed work, the officers commanding
them should be selected from the productive standpoint, as will be
demonstrated in the next chapter.
Design detailing offices should be headed by technical officers
representing the central design branch, from which they should
be administered, but they require coordination with production, in
a form which can be foreseen.
The design agency as a whole should be coordinated by a tech-
nical officer of wide general experience who may conveniently be
called the director of design.


  p. 1601 (#527)                      #

1925]
1601
Excellence of Naval Material
V. PRODUCTION
Production affects excellence of naval material chiefly through
quality of workmanship and economy of funds.
Quality of Il'orkmanship.-Quality of workmanship depends
only partly on the quality of the workmen and their tools. The
other factors are careful inspection and the use of the best meth-
ods of fabrication, assembly, erection, and test.
There is only one best method of accomplishing anything. It
can be recognized only by a person qualified to judge, and who is
in a position to know accurately the details of all the possible
methods.
To secure the desired results the best method must be used
wherever it applies. That is, it must be in general use. But, to
keep a method in general use, it is necessary to coordinate effec-
tively all agencies in which it is applicable.
As has been demonstrated previously, effective coordination re-
quires control, but also it depends to a considerable extent on the
ability to make control effective. The latter becomes difficult if
productive work is widely extended, and simple if it is condensed.
Therefore, as regards use of the best methods, it is essential
that all similar productive work be centrally controlled and that it
be condensed in territorial extent sufficiently to permit effective
supervision by the agents of control, that is, inspection.
For inspection, the essential requirements are intelligence and
thoroughness.
Intelligent inspection depends upon accurate and complete
knowledge by the inspector of what is required. Furthermore, it
often happens, during inspection work, that if the inspector also
knows why it is required and who requires it, he can greatly ex-
pedite and facilitate progress. In brief, the inspector (that is, the
supervising inspector) should be a trained specialist in the line of
work he inspects, and should be effectively controlled in his
activities. .
Inspection starts with selecting materials, progresses through
fabrication of parts, minor assemblies (such as electric motors
or torpedo gyros), major assemblies (such as ammunition hoists or
whole torpedoes), erections (such as installing propeller shafting
in a hull), and ends with testing for final acceptance. Its charac-
ter progresses gradually from purely technical to both operational


  p. 1602 (#528)                      #

1602
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
and technical. The whole process, therefore, requires both tech-
nical and operative (line) specialists.
Thorough inspection depends on adequate supervision, and
knowledge of requirements. As has been discussed above, ade-
quate supervision depends on an adequate force of supervisors
kept to the required standard by centralized control.
It will be apparent that with condensed production the number
of inspectors would be less and supervision and control of them
simpler.
Economy of Funds.--Economy in the use of funds for produc-
tion depends largely on reduction of overhead costs, effective shop
management, and the use of economical methods. It depends
also, in the last analysis, on reduction of incidental costs. For
instance, compare the cost of shipping both fuel and raw material
with the cost of shipping completed parts.
Overhead costs include not only administrative costs but those
due to duplication of power sources and other facilities.
With respect to administrative costs and to the previously de-
duced principle of physical concentration of similar processes, it is
important to note that naval material in general is classified in three
different ways during the process of production. The first classi-
fication is according to the trades or processes by which parts are
fabricated. The second is according to the technical units of minor
assemblies. The third is according to the operational and func-
tional units of major assemblies, erections, and final tests. These
classifications require some explanation.
Classification according to trades or fabricating processes can
be explained briefly by examples. The shops and workmen now
employed to fabricate the mechanical parts of torpedoes can equally
well fabricate those for optical instruments, fire-control instru-
ments, and any other equipment which requires high-grade, light
machining. Similarly, those now building guns can equally well
machine torpedo air flasks or propeller shafting.
Classification according to minor assemblies likewise involves
trades: for example, wiring of electrical devices, sheet metal
work, assembling of internal combustion engines, and blading
turbines. It involves other activities too specifically naval to be
classified as trades, such as assembling torpedo gyros and engines,
and assembling range finders. However, it is clear that naval


  p. 1603 (#529)                      #

1925)
1603
Excellence of Naval Material
material is very differently classified here than it is for fabrication.
Most minor assemblies will use parts fabricated by several quite
different processes.
Classification according to major assemblies is again quite dif-
ferent. Each major assembly usually includes several dissimilar
minor assemblies. For example, a turret mount includes electric
motors, guns, gun mounts, fire control devices, rammers, ammu-
nition hoists, electric lights and other units.
It has been explained that physical concentration of similar proc-
esses is essential for quality of workmanship. This refers not only
to fabricating processes, but equally to the processes of minor and
major assembling, as can readily be seen.
Single Agency for Production.—Then, since all naval material
during its process of development becomes subdivided successively
into three different classifications in each of which there should be
concentration of similar processes, it follows that all production
necessarily should be undertaken by a single agency for all naval
material. Only by this means can these successive subdivisions be
coordinated and inspection made effective under them.
Coming back now to administrative costs we see that one item
will be that of the whole productive organization—that is, the cost
of the central office. It is noteworthy, first, that the cost of a cen-
tral office should be less than that of several cooperative head
offices. The other point is that the cost of a central office would
be less, the greater the condensation of the units it coordinates.
The other item of administrative cost is that of the several offices
directly controlling the several fabricating, assembling, erecting,
and testing units. The fewer the total number of units, the less
the total cost. The fewer the separated shops under a unit, the
less the cost of that unit for administration.
With respect to duplication of power sources and other facilities,
it is hardly necessary to demonstrate that condensation in number
of establishments lessens both the initial cost of equipment and
the cost of operation.
Effective shop management depends largely on specialized train-
ing of technical managers, but it is greatly facilitated by con-
centration of similar activities because the utilization of resources
and personnel becomes more flexible. Also, concentration produces
intensification of technical knowledge, permitting all problems to be
met most intelligently.


  p. 1604 (#530)                      #

1604
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The use of economical methods is involved somewhat with use
of best methods, previously discussed. Sometimes expensive
methods must be used for the sake of quality of output, but there
are many cases where the development of a best method can be
advantageously simplified if economy of production is kept in
mind. The development of automatic machinery will indicate what
is meant.
This indicates that production also has a direct interest in the
use of experimental facilities to develop new methods.
The method by which work is handled is another case offering
opportunities for marked economy. A good illustration here is
the advantage which would result from grouping of fabricating
units to permit minor assembling without requiring distant trans-
porting of parts.
Incidental costs would be reduced by fabricating and effecting
minor assemblies at inland points close to the sources of fuel and
raw materials. It is less costly to transport minor assemblies and
parts than to transport the fuel and raw materials necessary to
make them.
There is also a strategical value in this plan. Fabricating plants
would be centrally located, able to ship minor assemblies in any
direction. They would be protected from enemy coastal raids.
The war time transportation problem would be simplified.
But it is not the purpose of this paper to discuss such applica-
tions of strategy. The question is too much bound up with the
Navy's peace-time requirement that coastal maintenance shops
shall be kept in operation so that they will be ready in the event
of war. It will be merely suggested that it might be well for the
Navy to survey properly located industrial plants in order to
identify appropriate ones so that advance arrangements could be
made with their owners for their direct war operation by the Navy.
Summary of Productive Requirements.—Thus, from the stand-
points of both quality of product and economy of funds, we should
have a single agency for producing all naval material. So far as
is commensurate with keeping maintenance yards ready for war
through keeping them busy, this agency should consolidate its
similar activities, and should group related activities to facilitate
minor assembling. Its active and supervisory work should be
handled by specialists.


  p. 1605 (#531)                      #

1925]
1605
Excellence of Naval Material
Functions Not Yet Discussed.—Certain incidental functions of
production remain for brief consideration. They are of interest
chiefly as regards personnel. These are planning, outside con-
tracts, procurement, storage, cost accounting and inspection. The
last named has been discussed, but only in some of its aspects.
* Planning splits up detailed designs into parts and assigns these
to the proper fabricating plants. It ascertains the relative urgency
of jobs and establishes precedence of work. It coordinates the
design requirements of production with the local agency of detail
design.
Its duties are both administrative and technical, but chiefly tech-
nical. It has no place for line or staff officers.
Outside contracts take care of the productive work done for the
Navy by commercial firms. The contract section would secure
specifications and plans from design, advertise for bids, investigate
the qualifications of bidders, award contracts, arrange for inspec-
tion, and, upon acceptance, make payments and arrange for trans-
portation, handling and storage.
These functions are administrative and fiscal. However, close
liaison with technical agencies in several of these functions would
be facilitated by including a limited technical personnel. The per-
sonnel, therefore, should consist of supply and technical officers.
Procurement secures raw materials and stock for production. It
differs from contracts for completed mechanisms only slightly.
The chief differences are the close touch it must keep with the
work loads of naval productive agencies in order to keep them
supplied, and the coordination it must have with storage facilities.
Procurement could be combined with the contract section to reduce
overhead.
Storage has regard to both raw materials and completed units.
Both require intelligent care. The care of raw materials requires
technical knowledge, but the case of completed units can best be
supervised by operative personnel because upkeep of units on
board ship is one of their special duties. Storage, therefore, re-
quires both technical and line officers. Storage should be closely
coordinated with both contracts and procurement, suggesting their
combination into a single office.
It is important to note that these three facilities are required for
maintenance work as well as for production. It would be un-


  p. 1606 (#532)                      #

1606
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
economical to have separate offices to handle them under each
function, but to combine them effectively to serve both production
and maintenance would necessitate effective coordination of pro-
duction and maintenance.
Cost accounting is required at each active productive agency to
enable its responsible head to watch the expenditure of his allot-
ment. It is a specialized fiscal process, to conduct which supply
officers are the logical choice.
A centralized cost accounting office for the entire naval estab-
lishment is necessary. This would necessarily contain subdivisions
to represent all naval activities which expend money, among which
production would be only one. However, the subdivision for pro-
duction presumably would be located in Washington where the cen-
tral office for controlling production would be located. Cooperation
here should be sufficient to keep the director of production in-
formed of the expenditure of his funds. He should not need a
special cost accounting agency of his own.
Inspection has already been discussed in its relation to selecting
materials and fabricating parts. Its final form is testing. Testing
minor assemblies would be technical in nature. Testing major
assemblies has operational aspects. Both erecting of devices in
ships and their final tests are chiefly operational in character.
First, as regards erecting : It is then that most piping and wiring
is installed, that working platforms and access ladders and aper-
tures are fitted, and that safety appliances are installed. By
having experienced operative (line) personnel to supervise these
matters much future trouble can be forestalled.
Testing determines acceptability. The ultimate customer is the
fleet; therefore final acceptance should lie with Operations. But,
to meet the requirements of the fleet, preliminary tests must be
made. Conception is the agency which has undertaken to produce
ships suitable to the needs of the fleet and therefore conception
should be the judge of preliminary tests.
Conception Dominatcs Inspection.—The logical inference is that
the inspectors of all tests should be direct agents of conception.
But all inspective acts are tests. Therefore the whole process of
inspection should be controlled directly by conception.
With this plan it will be seen that conceptive agents will secure,
by direct observation, the information about performances which


  p. 1607 (#533)                      #

1925]
1607
Excellence of Naval Material
is obviously of such immense conceptive and design value. Being
directly controlled by the conceptive agents, the inspectors will be
intelligently directed as to what information is wanted.
It will also be seen that the technical agents of conception would,
by this plan, be enabled to secure direct information as to the cor-
rectness of their design practices. They would get reports all
along the line, from selecting materials to lubrication, mechanical
freedom, lost motion, and interferences.
Proving Grounds and Torpedo Testing Ranges.—Coming now
to the previously mentioned gun proving grounds and torpedo
testing ranges, it will be at once apparent that they exist chiefly
as means of making tests. However, at no point in the system has
it appeared desirable that the function of inspection should be con-
fused with administration. Inspectors should not conduct tests,
but şimply observe them. Any other plan might lead to misunder-
standings with production in the event that equipment was rejected.
It therefore appears that proving grounds and ranges should
be commanded and operated by technical personnel and should
form elements of the single productive agency. Inspective per-
sonnel should be assigned to them merely to watch results.
The Productive Agency as a Whole.-As regards the productive
agency as a whole, a matter of interest is the type of officer who
should be its director. It is regarded as self-evident that he should
be a technical officer of wide general experience.
VI. MAINTENANCE
The effect of maintenance on excellence of naval material re-
sembles that of production as regards economy and quality of
work, but to a less extent. However, it has another effect, some-
what analogous to the benefits derived by conception and design
from inspection of production (but of greater value), due to the
fact that maintenance sees naval material after it has been sub-
jected to the test of service. This makes maintenance an impor-
tant source of information for conception and design.
Economy of Funds Difficult.-Economy of funds is difficult in
maintenance work because strategic considerations necessitate
having a number of widely separated and versatile maintenance
yards, and preparedness requires that they be kept operating so as
to be ready.


  p. 1608 (#534)                      #

1608
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The full war capacity of these yards exceeds the normal peace
time requirements of both maintenance and that part of produc-
tion performed directly by the Navy. This necessitates a partial
shutting down of facilities. By shutting down all facilities of cer-
tain types at one yard and those of a different type at another
yard, the yards could be specialized. In war the specialized per-
sonnel, being subject to draft, could be split up to make all yards
versatile.
Partial specialization appears consistent with fleet needs. All
heavy ships could be assigned to one yard on each coast, sub-
marines and aircraft, with their internal combustion engines, to
another, and light surface craft to a third.
The yard handling heavy ships could be the one also assigned
to do heavy productive work, and consistency should be sought
also as regards other combinations of maintenance and productive
work.
Quality of Workmanship.—The wide distribution of mainte-
nance yards renders it difficult to exercise effective centralized
supervision, necessary to keep all yards to the same high standard.
For this purpose the inspection force already discussed under
“Production” would be an excellent—in fact, necessary-agency.
Another means of maintaining high quality would be by very
thorough liaison between maintenance and production. For ex-
ample, bulletins describing productive experiences and methods
could be distributed to maintenance yards, and vice versa.
Maintenance Assisted by Production.—In preparing to make
alterations on a class of ships, maintenance often will need new
parts in sufficient quantity to justify having them made by pro-
duction. This would be economical and would also ensure quality
of workmanship. However, economy would be defeated if the
productive work load were thereby disturbed, and therefore, to
render this productive assistance beneficial, it would be necessary
to have, not cooperation, but coordination of production and
maintenance.
Effective coordination also would be necessary between concep-
tion and maintenance so that the need for parts could be foreseen
soon enough in advance, since productive work must take its turn
and therefore is relatively slow.


  p. 1609 (#535)                      #

1925]
1609
Excellence of Naval Material
There are, of course, other cases where single items of work
are too big for maintenance facilities. Here operational urgency
is the determinant of precedence and economy must sometimes be
disregarded.
Inforination for Conception and Design.—The agents of main-
tenance are like physicians and surgeons. They are told the symp-
toms of troubles, examine the affected parts, make diagnoses, and
then operate. This procedure enables them to get down to under-
lying causes.
These causes are the information desired by conception and ma-
terial, supported by the reasoning and evidence. They obviously
will be chiefly technical in nature, but some minor operational de-
sign information will also be secured. However, most operational
and functional design information should be secured through re-
ports from afloat.
Alterations.-Information of faulty performances, such as the
above, leads the conceptive and design agencies to develop altera-
tions. Since ships are often built in groups it follows that
alterations often affect several ships, and should be made in them
all. This would involve coordination of conception, design, main-
tenance, and operation, thus presenting a problem which will be
considered in Chapter VII-Coordination of the Functions.
Even where requests for alterations originate afloat the above
coordination is necessary.
Other Design Assistance.—Maintenance also requires design
assistance occasionally in effecting major repairs. This necessi-
tates coordination of design and maintenance because often the de-
mands of such work are imperative as to time and so would tend
to interfere with new design progress.
Cooperation With Operation.—Obviously, the liaison between
maintenance and operation should be perfect. Operation should
determine what is to be done and the priority of work; mainte-
nance does the work. But there are two possible causes of
discord. One is the availability of ships and the other the avail-
ability of funds.
Availability of ships is viewed by operation as to its effect on
the fleet schedule, but by maintenance as to its effect on the work
load. The latter determines whether maintenance can hold its
trained workmen.


  p. 1610 (#536)                      #

1610
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Availability of funds determines where maintenance must draw
the line through the work list of operation.
These points can best be settled by coordination.
Maintenance Facilities Afloat.—Repair ships of the fleet differ
from maintenance yards only in capacity and in the employment
of enlisted mechanics. Thus, there are no logical objections to
putting their repair departments under the control of technical
officers and operating them on the same basis as maintenance
agencies ashore. On the other hand, there are numerous ad-
vantages which would result, as will now be indicated.
The enlisted mechanics would be trained under technical special-
ists, which would make them more valuable when reassigned to
combatant ships.
The character of work would be as good as that done at main-
tenance yards. These ships would receive the bulletins issued by
production for the information of maintenance agencies. The
controlling personnel would be similarly trained and experienced.
The information of value to conception and design would be in-
cluded with that forwarded by the other maintenance agencies for
the use of the conceptive and design agencies.
Operating conditions would be observed at first hand by tech-
nical officers.
Liaison between maintenance and operation would be aided.
Advance reports on work to be done at shore maintenance yards
could be made by the technical personnel of repair ships.
The last advantage is by far the most important. Detailed and
efficient reports obviously could be made by these trained repair
officers who themselves should have come originally from the very
agencies to which their reports go. Such advance information as
to required material and estimated cost should be adequate for pre-
paratory work, so that maintenance yards could start actual work
very quickly after the ship arrived.
Repair ships with technical officers in their repair departments
should be commanded and operated by line personnel in the man-
ner now followed for hospital ships.
Cooperation With Ships Under Repair.—Line officers should
be detailed to maintenance yards and to the repair departments of
repair ships in order that the removal of equipment from ships
under repair, and work actually performed on board the ships, may


  p. 1611 (#537)                      #

1925]
16
Excellence of Naval Material
be coordinated with the operating necessities of the ships. For in-
stance, line officers could most intelligently arrange for heating,
lighting, or water where the regular ship's services have been neces-
sarily interrupted. They also can grasp most readily the nature of
the troubles which the ship's officers want corrected. In brief, they
are essential for liaison.
Maintenance a Single Agency.-Since conception, design, and
production, each should be conducted by single centralized agencies,
so also should maintenance, which has inter-relations with all of
them. Any other maintenance organization could not be adminis-
tered efficiently under the circumstances. The director of main-
tenance obviously should be a technical officer.
VII. COORDINATION OF THE FUNCTIONS
Another Application of Coordination versus Cooperation.-
Coordination versus cooperation has been discussed as regards
conception, but since then coordination has been used several times
with regard to the mutual action of virtually independent agencies.
This new application requires consideration.
Coordination of agencies, as in other cases of coordination, in-
volves control—that is, the agencies must be controlled by a
superior authority.
The implication here, assuming that the coordinator is qualified
for his job, is that he will know or else find out the respective
needs of the agencies, will consider them in the light of his general
plan, will eliminate non-essential considerations, and will promul-
gate instructions covering his decisions. Furthermore, he will
watch results, seeing that his desires are correctly realized and
applied.
Cooperation between agencies, on the other hand, lacks a general
plan, and decisions will depend on mutual agreement. Other than
the good intentions of the necessarily biased heads of the cooperat-
ing agencies, no means is included for eliminating non-essential
considerations and arranging the others in order of importance.
The decisions, therefore, are very apt to be based on the points of
view of the respective agencies instead of on the higher point of
view of ultimate advantage to the Navy.
Cooperation is not susceptible of effective supervision because
there is no superior to watch both sides. Supervision by either


  p. 1612 (#538)                      #

1612
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
side naturally is biased. Even where cooperation is natural
and easy, its extent will depend on the energy and personality of
the mutually concerned agents. Where it is difficult the natural
tendency would be toward friction and ill feeling.
Thus we see that coordination tends toward logical and efficient
interaction; cooperation tends the other way and can be made effi-
cient only through the fortunate accident of a similar viewpoint
by the cooperators.
The Mutual Dependence of the Functions. As the analysis has
progressed we have seen the dependence of design on conception,
of production on design, and of maintenance on both design and
production. We have seen also the dependence of conception and
design on maintenance. Chart I shows these interrelations
graphically.
Single Agency for Developing All Material.-All of these de-
pendencies clearly require coordination rather than cooperation.
From this it follows that we should have a single agency for the
development of all naval material. For convenience, we shall refer
to it as the division of naval material.
The chief of naval material then would be the natural leader of
the conceptive agency because as such he would directly dominate
all these functions except maintenance. Through the inspection of
maintenance work by the inspection force which forms an adjunct
of the conceptive agency, he would, in fact, also dominate main-
tenance.
Coordination of Maintenance With Operation.—It was pointed
out in discussing maintenance that the only two questions re-
quiring adjustment between operation and maintenance were the
navy yard work load versus the fleet operating schedule, and the
point at which lack of funds would interfere with completing
maintenance work on ships. The Secretary of the Navy, obviously,
is the superior authority who must settle the first of these ques-
tions. Funds are the determinant of the other question.
The Use of Funds.—The use of funds can be one of the chief
determinants of excellence of naval material. By economy of pro-
duction and maintenance, money should become available for de-
velopment work and for more maintenance work. But these are
too narrow restrictions. A more general use of surplus funds
would also permit more extensive operating by the fleet, thereby


  p. 1613 (#539)                      #

1925]
1613
Excellence of Naval Material
securing more information for the use of the conceptive agency.
This general use of surplus funds is possible only where Congress
appropriates a lump sum to the Navy. The Secretary of the Navy
should be responsible for its use. The necessary restrictions will
be discussed later, in Chapter X.
Centralized Accounting. In order to use surplus funds to ad-
vantage the Secretary would require a centralized accounting office
to keep him advised of expenditures. He would require, also, a
planning agency to ascertain the proposed activities of all branches
of the naval establishment, estimate their cost, scale them down
to the limitations of the budget, and prepare a composite time-
expenditure curve. Comparing actual expenditures with this
curve he would know the state of his balance and so could use his
surplus for the purposes deemed most necessary.
Budget Agency.—The above described planning agency, when
operating as indicated, would really be a budget bureau. It should
include line, staff, and technical officers so that the problems of all
agencies which spend money could be intelligently and sympa-
thetically grasped. It would require a director who, by virtue of
his influence in the vital matter of funds, would exert a very
powerful influence over naval affairs.
Of course the Secretary would not act on his advice alone, but,
presumably, would secure advice from the General Board before
approving proposals. The budget director would be in direct and
constant association with the Secretary.
Because the primary purpose of the Navy always must be
preparation for or the conduct of war, it is essential that the di-
rector of the budget should be a line officer.
VIII. PERSONNEL TRAINING AND SPECIALIZATION
An important determinant of quality of naval material is the
quality of the officer personnel. This obvious truth has already
been inferentially indicated by the constant references to line and
technical specialists during the discussion of conception and de-
sign. There are other less apparent applications as regards the
upkeep and use of equipment at sea. These require discussion in
order to establish the relation between excellence of material and
the training and specialization of personnel.


  p. 1614 (#540)                      #

1614
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Use of Equipment.—The upkeep of equipment by its operating
personnel is the elementary form of maintenance. Barring un-
avoidable accidents and design oversights, the extent of work to
be done by repair ships and navy yards will vary inversely with the
excellence of operational upkeep.
Excellence of operational upkeep requires knowledge as well as
attention. This knowledge should come from training supple-
mented by experience, and not from experience alone, because
upkeep knowledge derived solely from experience is normally the
result of making mistakes. It is acquired by trial and error. The
unfortunate effect on the equipment is obvious.
In using equipment its performance will depend on the knowl-
edge of the operating personnel as well as on their energy and in-
telligence. And again, this knowledge should come from training
supplemented by experience instead of from experience alone, but
for somewhat different reasons, which follow.
The lessons of experience are taught by happenings and self-
instruction. Happenings related to the subject may occur infre-
quently-perhaps only at wide intervals during peace. For
example, periods of torpedo firing occur only two or three times
a year during quite short periods. Thus, experience requires a
long time to complete its course.of instruction.
The significance of a happening is not always apparent, and
knowledge is required to understand it. For example, a curved
torpedo run may actually be due to unequal rudder throws, but a
torpedo officer lacking training would incline to suspect the more
obvious gyro, perhaps overhauling it to no purpose.
But, if knowledge is necessary to interpret happenings, it fol-
lows that a person in the process of learning by experience will
often be led to false conclusions. In other words, experience will
lead different persons in different paths before bringing them to-
gether, finally, at knowledge, and at intermediate points of the
journey they may be headed in opposite directions.
Self-instruction, on the other hand, is inclined to hew closer to
the line, but generally is impeded by waste motion due to improper
sequence, and ignorance of proper sources of information.
Thus, we see that experience is a slow and illogical teacher,
very apt to lead its untrained pupils astray, but, the teachings of
experience serve merely to enrich the knowledge of those who
have been trained.


  p. 1615 (#541)                      #

1925)
1615
Excellence of Naval Material
The Nature of Training.-By inference from what has pre-
ceded it will be seen that training is imparting the digested er-
perience of many people.
Digesting the experience of many people consists in collecting
their experiences, comparing them, investigating discrepancies,
and drawing up logical conclusions.
Imparting the resultant information requires, first, that it be
arranged in a natural sequence so that the mind of the student will
be prepared to grasp a new idea through having already assimilated
others upon which it depends.
The next requirement is that it shall be stated generally, and
in such form that the student will be able to apply it to specific in-
stances. Briefly, this requires that the information be stated as a
series of general principles, utilizing specific instances only to
illustrate their application.
The Need for Training.—The need for operative training
should therefore be apparent. Trained officers would make few
mistakes at the expense of equipment. They would get high per-
formance from it. They also would be able to draw intelligent
conclusions from occurrences, which would render their reports
and recommendations correspondingly valuable to the agencies of
conception and design.
But, these benefits derive only if officers receive training before
they become involved with the upkeep and use of naval material.
Thus, training is for the good of the Navy rather than that of the
individual, and should be mandatory.
Operational Specialization.—-Training of line officers in the use
and care of equipment is virtually synonymous with operational
specialization. This is because training must be specific. An
officer about to perform gunnery duties would find propulsive en-
gineering training of slight help. As an addition to his gunnery
training it would be a burden. In the course of his career in the
lower and middle grades he can receive training and gain experi-
ence in several operational lines, but only consecutively.
The test of soundness of operational specialization is its relation
to tactics because all line officers as they gain command rank must
be qualified in tactics. The functional line specializations are gun-
nery (including fire control), torpedo control, bombing, mine lay-
ing, communications, ship control, and ship propulsion. It is a


  p. 1616 (#542)                      #

1616
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
notable fact that each one of these except ship propulsion has direct
tactical implications for its controlling personnel.
Consecutive specialization in three of these lines should be suffi-
cient basic preparation for tactics and command, provided that ship
control and communications are two of them. The third should be
consistent with the principal weapon of the class of ship in which
the officer is to serve.
Propulsive engineering is in a class apart, and so utterly un-
related to the other battle functions that the way in which it is
handled by the British does not seem without merit. But, like the
others, it is a function in which special training would produce
commensurate benefits.
Specialization in Types of Ships.—The reference to service in
a class of ships brings up another form of line specialization. The
essential classes are battleships (including cruisers), airplane car-
riers, destroyers and submarines, and mine craft. The grouping is
according to the principal weapon. Continuous service in a class
is desirable rather than the contrary. Each class leads its personnel
into fleet tactics, and in the minor classes the induction is earlier
and lasts longer.
It is no more necessary that an officer shall command a battle-
ship to be qualified to command a fleet than that he should also
command a mine layer. This is because no officer is really quali-
fied to command in war until he has had general tactical train-
ing. Correct tactical training is based on fleet tactics, so that the
student learns the mutual relations of all types in battle, regard-
less of the type of ship in which he specializes. Tactical training,
therefore, should precede assignment to command.
Technical Specialisation.—The remaining form of specializa-
tion is technical. Its necessity can be judged from civil practice.
Modern scientific development has become so diversified, and at
the same time so intensified, that no individual can become a really
high grade technical engineer except through training and con-
tinuous application in a special line.
Postgraduate technical study is a recognized essential for tech-
nical specialization. Continuous application is no less essential for
being less clearly perceived in the Navy. Scientific progress is so
continuous and so frequently revolutionary that an officer could not
remain a real technical specialist at least, not of the grade required
by the Navy—without continuous practice.


  p. 1617 (#543)                      #

1925]
1617
Excellence of Naval Material
The need for this is also apparent when it is realized that to
qualify as a real technical expert it is necessary to have not only
postgraduate training but also extensive experience in inspection,
production, maintenance, and design.
Separation of Line Officers fron Technical Work.—Early in
the paper it was demonstrated that line officers should parti-
cipate directly in functional and operational design. This par-
ticipation was shown to be entirely consistent with their line
duties, and is consistent with the line specializations described just
above.
On the other hand, it was also demonstrated that line officers
should not participate in technical design. This conclusion is con-
firmed by the discussion which has just taken place regarding tech-
nical specialization.
Engineer or Technical Corps.—The inevitable and only sound
conclusion is that the Navy should have a distinct corps of tech-
nical specialists. This corps might be called the engineer corps
or the technical corps. The latter probably is preferable. It should
contain specialized groups for naval architecture, marine engineer-
ing, electrical engineering and the other branches which have been
indicated heretofore.
IX. OUR PRESENT MATERIAL SYSTEM
It is proposed now to examine our present system for develop-
ing naval material in the light of what has preceded. The informed
reader will have noted many differences between what has been
developed in the analysis and what now exists, but it is proposed
to discuss only those differences which are believed to be of the
greatest importance. This will serve to bring them into sharper
focus. The following comments will refer to the existing system
unless otherwise specifically indicated.
CONCEPTION.—It is believed that our present methods of con-
ception are wrong in the following respects :
1. Composition of the fleet and the military and major opera-
tional characteristics of ships are now determined by a committee.
This is a serious fault. The committee is the General Board,
which would be an admirable board of review for major concep-
tions. It has other important duties, not concerned with concep-
tion, to which this comment in no way refers.


  p. 1618 (#544)                      #

1618
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
2. Specialists do not now participate directly in major concep-
tive developments. Both line and technical specialists appear as
witnesses before the General Board which is composed normally
of generalists.
Our technical specialists usually are trained and tend to think
alike, and technical work also is more scientific and therefore less
controversial than line work; but, our line specialists, being at
present untrained operationally, tend to think differently. This
forces the General Board to judge between divergent views
upon many subjects in which the board members often do
not have detailed knowledge. The General Board is further
handicapped because the witnesses cannot easily be given a clear
idea of the board's point of view, due to insufficient opportunity.
Finally, each witness normally has a specialized view of his own
which he cannot avoid stressing.
3. Minor conception also is frequently handled by boards. The
Fire Control Board and Ship Control Board are examples. They
convene intermittently, which is also bad. They are very hurried.
Temporary boards also frequently are convened to consider special
conceptive subjects when circumstances render them prominent.
4. Conceptions are not coordinated directly with composition of
the fleet. They cannot be, with five independent cooperative ma-
terial agencies: namely, the material bureaus.
5. There is no individual responsibility for major, and many
minor, conceptions.
6. There is no continuous conceptive supervision of ship design.
This is obvious, since the General Board, which is the present
major conceptive agency, has neither time, nor personnel with the
requisite specialized knowledge, to conduct supervision of this
nature.
7. Minor conceptive policy is unstable in several bureaus where
material is handled by classes instead of by functions. Such sub-
division forces decentralization of conception, with the result that
periodic changes in personnel within a bureau tend to cause
changes in conceptive policy of the affected classes of the bureau's
material.
8. Minor conception is impaired, in bureaus so organized, be-
cause distribution of their insufficient personnel to handle a number
of classes makes it necessary for individuals to combine their con-


  p. 1619 (#545)                      #

1925)
1619
Excellence of Naval Material
ceptive function with administrative and other duties. In this con-
nection the reader is referred to The Cult of Incompetence by
Emil Faguet in which the decentralization of functions is ad-
mirably discussed.
9. Minor conceptions are not coordinated between bureaus.
Refer to No. 4. This is a serious impediment to sound general
development.
DESIGN.—The following faults are believed to exist in our de-
sign procedure. To facilitate reference, the sequence of numbers
will be continued.
10. Ship design is virtually controlled by technical officers—
naval constructors. This is because of Nos. 6 and 11.
II. Naval constructors perform functional and operational, as
well as technical, design functions for ships as a whole and also
for their hulls and "equipage." It is believed that the dangerous
and unnecessary “line-construction corps feud,” which obviously
does exist to some extent in the service, is caused by this fact,
coupled with lack of continuous conceptive supervision of design
(See No. 6) and the lack of any generally accepted line opinion on
any line subject of importance. The latter can be traced to lack
of line specialization and training. In brief, the causes of the
feud probably are a bad system and perhaps bad line officers
rather than bad naval architects.
12. Line officers now perform technical design. This they can-
not do properly. Also, it is harmful to the line to let them try,
because technical training is necessary, and takes considerable time,
during which the line officers being trained are removed from their
legitimate work. They are removed from it, also, whenever they
do technical designing. Since those now so employed are espe-
cially selected for their ability, it follows that the line, in them,
loses the use of some of its best minds during extensive periods.
Line problems are of themselves sufficiently difficult, and also
pressing, to require for their solution all the brains and energy
that the service can muster.
13. Design of elements of ships is not coordinated.' The five
bureaus cooperate instead. See Nos. 4 and 9.
14. Overlapping cognizances result from the bureau system,
whereby material is handed by classes instead of by functions.
For example, fire control instruments are handled by Ordnance,


  p. 1620 (#546)                      #

1620
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
gyro compasses (essential for fire control) by Navigation, voice
tubes (also essential) by Engineering and Construction and Re-
pair, and all electric wiring and power sources by Engineering.
All of these things require centralized coordination, whereas all
that is not possible is cooperation.
15. Technical and operational considerations tend to dominat e
military ones, due to Nos. 6, 10 and 11. The reverse must be the
case, to secure functional brilliance and soundness of design.
A few guarded examples can be given : Destroyer body designs
have been architected for speed with economy of power, with the
result that these vessels have battleship turning circles (poor anti-
submarine screening vessels.) They and our light cruisers have
four funnels for reasons of propulsive economy, or perhaps to
facilitate smoke control. This wastes precious center-line space
for guns and, in the case of cruisers, for an airplane catapult in a
sheltered and versatile position.
Smoke control can be handled readily in a multiple-flue funnel
by raising forward flues relatively to those abaft them, in a reverse
vertical echelon.
Finally, our torpedoes for years have been designed with tur-
bine engines for reasons of operational ruggedness, but at the ex-
pense of the very great tactical advantage of a wide speed range.
Only very recently has it been found possible to develop the latter
feature in a turbine torpedo.
In general, results such as the above are due to:
a) Lack of a centralized development of all conception.
b) Failure to develop minor conceptions directly from a single
theory of composition of the fleet. This is a corollary of (a).
c) Direct development of some phases of military conception
and design by technical officers. See Nos. 10 and 11.
d) Direct development by line officers of some phases of tech-
nical conception and design. See No. 12. The bad effect here
results really from causes (a) and (b). The fact that a line officer
cannot also be a good technical designer (See No. 12) is incidental.
16. Technical design is not standardized. For example, elec-
trical standards and practices are considerably different among the
bureaus. So are mechanical tones. The worst result is the confu-
sion afloat, but the failure to profit generally from developments
by each bureau is another bad result.


  p. 1621 (#547)                      #

1925)
1621
Excellence of Naval Material
17. There is no central design records office. Its benefits are
absent.
18. Design policy is unstable in some bureaus. Same as for
No. 7.
19. Design overhead costs are greater than necessary, due to
lack of concentration of personnel and facilities.
20. Design progress is slow due partly to No. 6 and partly to a
considerable tendency among the bureaus to produce complete gen-
eral designs before operating models are built and tested. This
probably is due to absence of convenient experimental facilities.
21. Design work is often too expensive, for reasons given in
No. 20.
PRODUCTION.—The discussion of faults continues.
22. Fabrication is not sufficiently condensed according to proc-
esses or trades. This is due chiefly to having five independent
bureaus. The advantages previously indicated are lost, especially
economy.
23. Minor assemblies are not condensed. Reasons and results
similar to those of No. 22.
24. Technical productive work is done by line officers. This
wastes their time. See No. 12.
25. One bureau's plans depend on another's funds, in cases of
the sort indicated in No. 14. The objections are too apparent to
require statement.
MAINTENANCE.-
26. Navy Yard work on ships is not effectively coordinated.
This is partly because under the existing system it is not possible
for maintenance representatives to inspect proposed work ahead
of time.
27. Some technical maintenance work is done by line officers.
See No. 24.
28. Funds for maintenance are not centrally coordinated. This
is because specific appropriations are now made by Congress direct
to the several bureaus. Transfers of surplus funds are not per-
mitted. The Secretary cannot apply the naval appropriations to
the best advantage.
MISCELLANEOUS CONSIDERATIONS.—There are several faults
which do not come directly under any of the foregoing heads,
as follow:


  p. 1622 (#548)                      #

1622
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
29. Line officers are not trained in their operative duties before
assignment, except for aviation and submarines. Aviation and
submarines are specialties in types of ships rather than functional
specialties, although they include instruction in associated func-
tions.
The only other functional instruction now given to line officers
is in torpedoes, optical equipment, gas protection, and at the Naval
War College. None of these courses necessarily precedes related
assignments to duty. All of them except the War College deal
more with upkeep than with functional use of equipment, except,
of course, the instruction in gas protection.
30. Line specialties are not recognized. In fact, they are offi-
cially discouraged, although they actually exist, both as to func-
tions and classes of ships. They obviously have to exist, but
official disapproval of them naturally makes officers unwilling to
specialize effectively, thus preventing the Navy from securing the
full benefits from this specialization.
GENERAL SUMMARY.—The foregoing faults may be summarized
as improper conception, cooperation where coordination is
necessary, improper use of line and technical officers, uneconomical
use of funds, and failure to train line officers for line functions.
These serious faults are bound to lead to commensurate faults
in our naval material. Informed readers will be aware of suffi-
ciently numerous and serious material faults to substantiate the
criticisms which appear in this paper. It is, of course, inexpedient
to enumerate such cases here.
X. A PROPOSED SYSTEM
Modifications to Existing System.—Except for improper major
conception, the faults in our present system are direct or indirect
products of the splitting up of naval material among five inde-
pendent bureaus. Those which are direct products will be obvious
from what has preceded. The indirect ones chiefly result from the
use of line officers for technical work and technical officers for
line work.
It does not appear possible to secure a satisfactory systent
by temporizing with the classified subdivision of material which
the present bureaus represent. Placing them under a chief of
naval material would not solve the problem because his power could


  p. 1623 (#549)                      #

1925)
1623
Excellence of Naval Material
then be only nominal; that is, he could not render it effective. The
changes he would have to make in order to centralize design, con-
dense productive facilities, apply maintenance funds to the best ad-
vantage, and enable his centralized conceptive agency to exercise
general supervision and coordination would actually result in the
creation of a functional system similar to that outlined in this paper.
It is therefore proposed that we should attack the situation
boldly, establishing a single division of naval material organ-
ized on functional lines essentially as has been indicated. This
single agency should perform the material functions of the present
Bureaus of Construction and Repair, Ordnance, Engineering,
Navigation, and Aeronautics.
Growth of the Present System.—The proposed change does
not appear so startling if we realize that the present system is a
haphazard growth, not a logical development. It started in sailing
ship days when hull and ordnance were the two major classes of
equipment. There were no conflicts between them—no interlock-
ing requirements. The guns were rolled about on wheels and
the hull merely provided apertures for their muzzles and ring
bolts for their breechings.
Another bureau resulted when steam propulsion developed,
but since hulls were still wood and guns did not require power,
there were still no interlocks; but when metals and power became
generally necessary in all departments of ships the bureau system
automatically became illogical.
Other Material Bureaus.—No direct reference has yet been
made to the present Bureaus of Yards and Docks, Supplies and
Accounts, and Medicine and Surgery. These all handle material
to some extent, but in general it does not come under the definition
of naval material.
However, the Bureau of Yards and Docks handles facilities
which are utilized very largely by the productive and maintenance
agencies. There are relatively few naval stations which are used
for administrative or operational work not connected with the
development of naval material, and these are ordinarily com-
manded by line officers or supply officers. It therefore would
appear quite proper to include this bureau in the division of
naval material, as well as very desirable. It could be administered
to advantage as an element of the agency of maintenance.


  p. 1624 (#550)                      #

1624
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The Bureau of Supplies and Accounts at present performs
three functions. Of these, accounting should be centralized for
the entire Navy, as has been indicated; therefore it should be done
by an agency coming directly under the office of the Secretary
of the Navy.
The second function consists of handling contracts for pro-
ductive work, and sometimes for maintenance work, by civilian
firms. This has been discussed, and clearly should be performed
within the division of naval material in a single agency serving
both production and maintenance.
The third function consists of procurement and storage of raw
materials and stock. These include food, clothing, and operational
supplies for ships. In this function, as in the second, the bureau
is merely an agent, but it serves two masters (the division of
naval material and the division of operations of the fleet) whose re-
quirements are quite dissimilar. Nothing essential is gained by
combining these dissimilar duties in a single independent agency
and much would be lost if thereby the division of naval material
were to lose control of those functions which rightly belong to it.
Thus, it appears logical to subdivide procurement and storage be-
tween the two divisions of naval material and naval operations. In
the division of naval material a single agency should perform
this work together with contracts) for the agencies of both pro-
duction and maintenance.
The Naval Organization as a Whole.—The condensations so far
suggested would result in two main subdivisions of the Navy
Department with certain agencies coming directly under the Secre-
tary's office and two others not yet assigned.
The two latter are the personnel functions of the Bureau of
Navigation, and the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery which is
essentially a personnel agency. On the grounds of coordination
and to reduce overhead, it would seem logical either to combine
them into a division of personnel or to add them, as sections, to
the present Office of Naval Operations. The latter is much
preferable because it automatically would solve certain contro-
versial matters such as training and distribution of personnel.
The importance of these considerations to the development of
naval material, which has been indicated, justifies their discussion
in this paper.


  p. 1625 (#551)                      #

1925]
1625
Excellence of Naval Material
The Secretary's Office should include the accounting office,
the budget office, and the General Board.
The budget office supplies the Secretary with his most effective
coordinative machinery.
The General Board should be, as it now is, the Secretary's ad-
visory committee. It is qualified to examine any naval plan for
soundness. It is not qualified to originate plans. With the pro-
posed organization there would be in continuous existence agencies
properly designed to originate all plans required by the Navy, thus
relieving the General Board of work of this nature.
The Proposed System in Detail.-In examining the following
concrete proposals the reader is requested to refer to the diagram
of organization on Chart II.
1. The Navy Department should consist of the Secretary's
Office and the two major divisions of naval operations and naval
material.
2. The Secretary's office should consist of his staff and the
General Board.
3. The Secretary's staff should consist of the budget section
and the accounting section. The chief of staff should be a line
officer.
4. The General Board should advise the Secretary relative to
proposed naval activities. It should be the board of review for
major conceptions. It should not initiate conceptive work as re-
gards either material or operation.
5. The division of naval operations should consist of the present
agency of that name plus the present Bureau of Medicine and
Surgery, the personnel branch of the present Bureau of Naviga-
tion, and that section of the present Bureau of Supplies and Ac-
counts which deals with personnel and operative supplies.
6. The division of naval material should comprise all material
functions now performed by the present Bureaus of Navigation,
Construction and Repair, Ordnance, Engineering, Aeronautics,
Yards and Docks, and Supplies and Accounts. The duties of
these agencies should be rearranged and combined to the best ad-
vantage, essentially as hereafter indicated..
7. The division of naval material should consist of a con-
ceptive agency, bureaus to perform the functions of design, pro-


  p. 1626 (#552)                      #

1626
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
duction, and maintenance, and offices or agencies for inspection,
experiments, testing, records, contracts, and procurement and
storage. The five last mentioned offices or agencies are each aux-
iliaries to two or more of the proposed functional bureaus, there-
fore they should be administered directly under the chief of naval
material who would coordinate their activities with the require-
ments of the bureaus. The other agency, inspection, should be an
instrument of the conceptive agency.
8. The conceptive agency should constitute the staff of the
chief of naval material. It has the functions of gathering informa-
tion, digesting it, presenting it for consideration of the chief of
naval material, working out conceptions under his direction, and
supervising and coordinating their application through all the
bureaus.
9. The staff of the chief of naval material should consist of
a chief of staff, a superior division, a general division of four
sections, and a financial division. The chief of staff should be a
line officer.
10. The superior division should consist of two or more senior
line officers representing tactics and strategy. Their functions are
outlined elsewhere.
II. The general division would consist of sections as follows:
a) The weapons section, consisting of line officers.
b) The auxiliary functions section, also consisting of line of-
ficers.
c) The elemental section, consisting of line and staff officers.
d) The technical section, consisting entirely of technical officers.
12. The financial division would consist of supply officers.
13. The bureau of design would have the functions of prepar-
ing all general designs, and the preparation of all detail designs in
coordination with the bureau of production. It would work also
with the bureau of maintenance when that bureau requires design
assistance. This coordination would be effected by the chief of
naval material through the chiefs of bureaus.
14. The bureau of design should consist of a ship design
division, a general design division and a number of decentralized
detail design agencies located at productive plants. The chief
of bureau should be a technical officer.


  p. 1627 (#553)                      #

1925]
1627
Excellence of Naval Material
15. The ship design division should consist of sections for
the essentially different types of ships. Its personnel should all be
technical.
16. The general design division should consist of sections for
the essential function and operational classes of material. Its
personnel should be technical.
17. The detail design agencies are described elsewhere.
Their personnel should be technical.
18. The bureau of production has the functions of coordinat-
ing with the bureau of design as to its detail design requirements,
and of fabricating, assembling, erecting, and conducting the tests
of all new naval material. It also aids the bureau of maintenance
when necessary. The chief of bureau should be a technical officer.
19. The bureau of production should consist of divisions for
planning, fabrication, minor assembling and major assembling and
of centralized administrative offices and centralized plants for con-
ducting the work.
The divisions will not be described in detail. Their personnel
should be technical, except that the divisions for erecting and
conducting tests should include line officers.
20. The bureau of maintenance has the functions of perform-
ing repairs and alterations to ships and their equipment, and of
reporting to the conceptive agency and the bureau of design all
information thereby secured which can be applied to improve naval
material. The chief of bureau should be a technical officer. He
should have a senior line assistant to assist him to cooperate ef-
fectively with the division of naval operations. Conflicting con-
siderations would be coordinated by the office of the Secretary via
the chiefs of divisions of naval material and naval operations.
21. The bureau of maintenance should consist of a centralized
administrative office directing the maintenance work of repair ships
and navy yards and arranging for coordination with other bureaus
where necessary. The personnel should be chiefly technical but re-
quires some line officers.
The nature of the separate maintenance agencies of naval sta-
tions and repair ships will not be discussed in detail.
22. The inspection agency has the functions of testing ma-
terials, inspecting fabricated parts, testing minor assemblies and


  p. 1628 (#554)                      #

1628
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings.
major assemblies, and making preliminary tests on erections. It
is the direct agent of the conceptive agency. It therefore should
inform that agency of conceptive and technical applications which
develop from its work. It should have the power to reject, in
the name of the chief of naval material, all work found unsatis-
factory. It should apply its functions to production and mainte-
nance work. Its personnel should be chiefly technical but should
include line officers for the final tests. Since these are the most
important, the director of inspection should be a line officer.
23. The experimental agency has the functions of conducting
development work required by the agency of conception and the
bureaus. It supplies facilities and workmen, allowing the repre-
sentatives of the primary agencies to direct the work. It must
adjust their requirements to its facilities, priority being decided
by the chief of naval material. The director of experiments
should be a technical officer and his personnel should be technical.
24. The testing agency has the functions of conducting tests
for the bureaus of production and maintenance. It should provide
personnel and facilities, permitting the bureau personnel to direct
the tests. It should conduct only tests which by their nature re-
quire special facilities, such as ranging torpedoes, proving guns,
proving armor, and conducting trials of ships. Its director should
be a technical officer but he requires line assistants as well as tech-
nical ones.
25. The records office has been fully described.
26. Contracts, procurement, and storage have been quite fully
considered. They can well be combined into a single supply
agency for the division of naval material, of which the director
should be a supply officer. The personnel should consist of supply,
technical and line officers.
27. Funds should be appropriated in a single budget, for the
expenditure of which the Secretary of the Navy should be directly
responsible. That officer should be free to utilize operative and
maintenance funds, and savings from productive economies, to
the general advantage of the naval service. The rights of Congress
can be safeguarded by requiring an annual statement of the ex-
penditure of funds in detail. Such a statement would be prepared,
in any case, by the accounting section of the Secretary's office.


  p. 1629 (#555)                      #

1925]
1629
Excellence of Naval Material
28. A technical corps should be established, consisting of
specialized branches for naval architecture, steam engineering,
electrical engineering, ordnance engineering (guns, projectiles,
armor, and explosives), aeronautics, optics, civil engineering, and
other necessary lines.
The personnel should consist of commissioned officers, prefer-
ably graduates of the Naval Academy. Their training as such
should initiate with sea service to enable their proclivities to be
decided, then specialized postgraduate technical instruction, junior
experience in inspection, production, maintenance, and design, sub-
sequent special courses of instruction and, finally, higher assign-
ments depending on their special abilities.
The selection, development, and assignments of these officers
should be a special function in the central personnel office of the
Navy. This work should be performed by technical officers nomi-
nated by the chief of naval material. It should be handled in ac-
cordance with his requirements.
29. Line officers should perform no purely technical duties
whatsoever.
30. Line officers should specialize in line functions according
to two classifications : namely, types of ships and battle functions.
31. Specialization in types of ships should consist of:
a) Battleship and cruiser duty.
b) Aviation duty.
c) Destroyer duty.
d) Submarine duty.
e) Mine duty.
Specialization of this sort means constant sea assignment to
vessels of a single type. There would be no serious objection to
temporary diversions where necessitated by the general personnel
situation, or to permanent changes when they appear desirable.
Duty on auxiliaries should be regarded as detached duty, un-
related to any of these, and therefore should not be specialized in,
that is, no competent officer should be assigned to it continuously.
It is believed that line officers should not be assigned to classes
(b) to (e) immediately upon graduation from the Naval Acad-
emy. Duty in vessels of class (a) is highly desirable for recent
Naval Academy graduates to break them in to active service con-
ditions.


  p. 1630 (#556)                      #

1630
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
32. Specialization in battle functions should consist of:
a) Gunnery, including fire control.
b) Torpedo control.
c) Bombing
d) Ship propulsion.
e) Communications.
f) Ship control, including navigation.
g) Tactics.
h) Strategy and major tactics.
These are named in the sequence in which they should be taken up.
All line officers should specialize, first in any one of (a) to (c),
then in each of the others in the order named, except (d). The
latter is additional.
Specialization should not begin until after several years service
as a junior officer on a battleship or cruiser. During this period
the young officer should be shifted about until his bent is in-
dicated. He then should receive a course of operational training
in the line of his inclination, of which the usual duration should not
exceed six months. Specialization in (a) to (c) or in (d) should
be the longest in his career, though some young officers should, of
course, go rather quickly into (e).
Before undertaking any new specialty the officer should receive
an appropriate course of operational training.
33. There should be operational schools for all battle function
specialties. That for (g) would be the junior war college course,
shortened to six months, if necessary in order to secure enough
graduates per year. That for (h) would be the senior war col-
lege course, of at least a year.
The other schools can be conducted to the best advantage on
school ships because this will permit instruction by demonstration.
It also will enable the division of naval material to secure prompt
and intelligent service tests of new devices by sending them to the
appropriate school ships.
34. Assignment to duty. In order to permit putting these es-
sential line proposals into effect it will be necessary to adopt the
following policies for assignments to duty:
a) For the first few years all Naval Academy graduates
should be sent to battleships and cruisers for general assignment.
They should serve in several departments. At the end of that
time selections should be made for line and technical specialization.


  p. 1631 (#557)                      #

1925]
1631
Excellence of Naval Material
b) Line officers should specialize continuously in classes
of ships.
c) Line officers should specialize successively in battle func-
tions.
d) Battle functional specialization should always start with
operational training at a school.
e) Line officers should serve alternately afloat and ashore,
approximately in the proportion of three and two years at first,
and two and two years toward the end, but the time spent at
school should not be counted as either one or the other.
The latter requirement removes the present disadvantage which
adheres to the junior war college course. Officers who now start
their shore duty with this course cannot expect good assignments
for their one remaining year of shore duty under the present policy.
Those about to go to sea duty often cannot get assigned to the
course unless their previous shore assignment has been curtailed.
If all operational training school courses are of six months dura-
tion there will be two periods per year at which changes on ships
would be made. These periods can be fitted in readily with the
normal operating schedule of the fleet.
It is realized that the existing number of line officers in the
Navy might prevent the full development of the necessary system
of operational instruction prior to assignment. This simply would
indicate an essential need for more officers. Congress must be
brought to see the necessity for having them, should this be the
case. It would seem that in presenting this and other essential
requirements the necessity for which can be logically demonstrated,
the compelling argument should be this: A navy known to be
inefficient is not only an unjustified public expense but is the basis
for an unwarranted public confidence in the national defense.
Service Agreement.—To make possible many of these changes
Congressional action is necessary. This is difficult to obtain unless
service opinion is practically unanimous for the change. It also
is very dangerous unless the proposed change is unqualifiedly
sound and fully worked out.
For these reasons it is earnestly requested that wide and thor-
ough service consideration be given to the proposals in this
paper and the logic which attempts to support them. The de-
partment of the Naval INSTITUTE PROCEEDINGS devoted to dis-
cussion provides an excellent medium for debate.


  p. 1632 (#558)                      #

AVIATION AT THE NAVAL ACADEMY
By CAPTAIN H. A. BALDRIDGE, U. S. NAVY
Head of Department of Seamanship and Flight Tactics,
U.S. Naval Academy
- UCH interest has been aroused in many quarters concern-
VI ing the course in aviation and aeronautics recently in-
augurated at the Naval Academy. The following brief
account is prepared with a view of acquainting the service at large
with the present relative position of aviation in the curriculum.
It is common knowledge to the service that ever since its founda-
tion the Academy has made changes in the curriculum from time
to time in order to keep abreast or ahead of advancement in naval
science.
In the last quarter century the curriculum has made room for
new subjects, such as water tube boilers, radio, turbines, internal
combustion engines, and communications; in addition it has greatly
expanded in the fields of electrical engineering, marine engineer-
ing, naval construction, and modern ordnance and gunnery.
For example, last fall the Academic Board authorized additional
time to aviation subjects already included in the curriculum and a
specially prepared textbook, Naval Aviation, was adopted for the
Seamanship Department and studied last winter by the first class
(1925). This book covers the following ground: history and
mission of naval aviation, elementary aerodynamics, aircraft
engines, aircraft navigational instruments, aviation bases, scouting,
aircraft action after contact, fighting, formation attack, aerial
gunnery, observation, torpedoing and bombing, future of avia-
tion in war, types of aircraft and nomenclature of the National
Advisory Committee for Aeronautics.
The Academy, the same as other professional schools, has always
met the ever-increasing demands made upon its curriculum by the
careful pruning and deleting of certain subjects as soon as it
becomes evident that they are tending to become obsolete. In


  p. 1633 (#559)                      #


Bureau of Aeronautics Photo
SEA PLANE TYPE "F-5-L” USED AT U. S. Naval ACADEMY IN THE TRAINING OF MIDSHIPMEN


  p. 1634 (#560)                      #

1634
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
cases where it is evident that the service demands more time than
the four-year course at the Academy can give, the postgraduate
courses pursued several years after graduation have been found to
meet such contingencies. It seems to be well recognized that the
line officer's profession is one of those in which it is absolutely
necessary for the young man to be on his way by the time he is
twenty-one to twenty-five years of age; else he is hopelessly handi-
capped in developing those decisive traits of character so necessary
for active leadership.
Aviation has been, is, and will be accorded the position in the
curriculum that its importance demands.
The mission of the Naval Academy, to all intents and purposes,
may be said to have always remained the same; recently it has been
officially stated as “To mould the material received into . ...;
with a ground work of educational fundamentals upon which ex-
perience afloat may build the finished naval officer. ...."
What, then, may be fairly asked, has the Naval Academy been
doing for aviation? What is it doing now? Of what does the
new course consist, and how is it being administered ?
AVIATION IN THE REGULAR CURRICULUM
That the service may better understand what the Academy is
doing now, it is perhaps interesting to know what it was previously
doing. The current annual Naval Academy Register (1924-25)
shows that the regular four-year course consists of 5,880 hours of
study, recitations, and examinations in theoretical subjects and 748
hours of drills, not counting the fourth class (plebe) summer or the
time spent on three summer practice cruises.
Of the above, 672 hours deal directly or indirectly with aviation
and aeronautics, approximately II per cent of the total time given
to the theoretical subjects at the Academy.
The above instruction covers in an elementary manner the funda-
mentals of aviation strategy and tactics, laws of storms and weather
maps, communications, aviation history, scouting, seamanship of
aircraft on the surface, aerial navigation, gas engines, aerial guns,
physics, mechanics, theory of flight and radio instruments.


  p. 1635 (#561)                      #

1925]
1635
Aviation at the Naval Academy
AVIATION AT PRESENT
On May 5, 1925, the Navy Department approved recommenda-
tions which were essentially as follows:
a) That the study of aeronautics will be an integral part of the
Naval Academy course and is to be gradually expanded.
b) That in addition to the studies in (a), during the regular
four-year course, all future graduates will be given three months
of special intensive instruction in ground and flight work, so that
all graduates, according to their physical qualifications, may later
become qualified either as naval observers or naval aviators.
c) That the additional flight work necessary to qualify as naval
observers or naval aviators will be undertaken during the first two
years after graduation, which period is classed as the instructional
period of junior officers.
d) That to initiate the above instruction, 150 midshipmen, mem-
bers of the class of 1926 (first class), were to remain at the
Academy this summer and take the three months' special intensive
course and also be given the "flight (medical) examination" to
determine their physical qualifications for flying.
e) That during the summer of 1926 the remaining members of
the class of 1926 (approximately 300 ensigns then) will be given
the three months' course; that subsequent classes will be given this
course immediately following their graduation.
f) That the Department of Seamanship, and the Department of
Marine Engineering and Naval Construction will hereafter be
known, respectively, as Seamanship and Flight Tactics, and Engi-
neering and Aeronautics.
It is observed here that under the plan outlined above, two
years hence, approximately 1,000 ensigns will have completed this
special three months' course before joining their ships for their
first commissioned service.
MISSION
MISSION OF THE COURSE
The mission of this course has already been outlined, but it
must be particularly borne in mind that no attempt is being made
to turn out a finished flyer before leaving the Academy. It will
be found that this course even stops short of solo flying, although
it includes sixteen hours actually in the air for each midshipman,
while the ground work includes twelve weeks of instruction, total-


  p. 1636 (#562)                      #

1636
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ling some 405 hours. However, it is only fair to the Academy to
add that some of the most influential aviation magazines are now
carrying advertisements of what are reputed to be the leading
civilian flying schools, which offer courses in ground work of
from four to six weeks, with from six to ten hours in the air, and
guarantee to teach “even the most stubborn cases" to fly.
It will be recalled that after this three months' course the gradu-
ate is to complete his flight work in the first two years of com-
missioned service—his ultimate qualification as naval aviator or
naval observer to depend upon physical limitations as determined
by the flight examination.
The percentage of rejections for physical reasons in the service
at large is quite high, running around 70 per cent; the percentage
of rejections of midshipmen will not be made known as it is de-
sired to keep this confidential in order that each may pursue his
work as conscientiously as possible up to the time he may expect
to be ordered for the advanced work.
The Academy no more expects the graduate to be a finished
flyer upon the completion of the special course here than it ex-
pects him to be 100 per cent proficient as an engineer officer,
gunnery officer, navigator, or captain of a dreadnaught upon the
completion of his regular four-year course in engineering, gunnery,
navigation, and seamanship. The surgeon needs practice and ex-
perience upon leaving his school; so do the lawyer and the
engineer.
With the above clearly kept in mind there can be no confusion
as to what the Academy is actually attempting to accomplish.
PREPARATION FOR THE COURSE
Immediately following the publicly announced policy of the
Department, the academic authorities, with the assistance of two
naval aviators—one in charge of the Pensacola course of instruc-
tion and the other as a representative of the Bureau of Aero-
nautics—began to do the planning of the new course with the
results as follows.
Personnel.—There were ordered to report to the Superintendent
for duty as instructors in the ground work seven qualified aviation
instructors all of whom had taken the Pensacola course. In


  p. 1637 (#563)                      #


Bureau of Aeronautics Photo
SEA PLANE TYPE "H-16" USED IN INSTRUCTION OF MIDSHIPMEN AT U. S. NAVAL ACADEMY


  p. 1638 (#564)                      #

1638
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
addition, there were ordered as assistant drill instructors twenty-
eight enlisted men of aviation ratings for duties in connection with
drills in “structure and rigging,” “gas engines,” and “radio code
practice.”
There was further ordered to report to the Superintendent one
(VS) scouting division of six seaplanes (4 H-10s and 2 F-5 Ls).
The operating personnel came fresh from the scouting fleet for
this special and important duty. Its personnel consisted of nine
officers (all qualified naval aviators) and eighteen enlisted men
in the proper aviation ratings. The mission of this flight division
was to give the midshipmen their practical Aight instruction in the
air-approximately sixteen hours per midshipman—four hours in
each of the duties of (a) second pilot, (b) navigator, (c)
gunner and mechanic, and (d) radio man. The six planes were
moored in the Severn and attached temporarily to the Naval
Academy command. Their mere presence and their operations
exclusive of flights with the midshipmen were of great benefit to
every one connected with the course. Two spare seaplanes were
subsequently received as well as an additional pilot.
Material and Equipment. In addition to the eight seaplanes
there were provided :
a) Radio sending keys and telephone head receiving sets for
classroom instruction in radio code practice;
b) Six airplanes for practical work in disassembly and assembly
to supplement the theoretical course in “structure and rigging";
c) Twelve engines for practical work in disassembly and as-
sembly to supplement the theoretical course in “gas engines”;
d) An engine testing plant with six engine test stands. This
had to be constructed and was located near the Experimental
Station across the river but closer to the Academy than the rifle
range. It was here that the midshipmen encountered "trouble
shooting”—and they were required to locate the troubles and
correct them.
e) Navigational instruments consisting of: three bubble
sextants, three drift angle meters, three torpedo watches, two
clocks, three large compasses, three small compasses, one chart
board, three Bygrave's slide rules, three bearing plates, three
course and distance indicators.


  p. 1639 (#565)                      #


Naval Academy Photo
MIDSHIPMEN LOCATING AND CORRECTING ENGINE TROUBLE


  p. 1640 (#566)                      #

1640
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
f) Gunnery equipment as follows: one Vought V E-7 seaplane
with synchronized gun installation for practical work, fifty Lewis
machine guns (aircraft and other various types for instructional
purposes and range gunnery), complete sets of synchronizing gear
installations, eight camera guns and equipment, bomb equipment
and bombs of various types, bomb sights of latest types, torpedo
directors and equipment, deflection gauges, various and miscel-
laneous other equipment.
g) Numerous and various spare parts, supplies, and stores
necessary for plane and practical work of the course.
h) One Huff Daland seaplane.
THE COURSE
General.—The course began on June 8 and ended on August 28.
One hundred fifty first classmen remained at the Academy and
took the course, which included two full working days in a super-
vised visit of inspection to the aircraft factory at Philadelphia. In
general, the course established is the same as that given in the
“Ground School Course” and “Ground Gunnery" at Pensacola, the
chief differences being that:
a) There are less radio practices; and
b) There is no instruction in radio instruments as this is given
in regular instruction during the academic year.
Organization.—The regular academic heads of departments
supervised the work in their various departments. No additional
department was created although the Superintendent issued
orders making the head of the Department of Seamanship and
Flight Tactics his aide for aviation with the title of Director of
Aviation—the latter's duties being to coordinate all summer
activities in connection with aviation. He was assisted in these
duties by an experienced naval aviator. All told, the aviation
details to assist the regular academy officers numbered eighteen
officers and forty-six enlisted men including a flight surgeon.
The ground instruction was carried out by recitations and
lectures under the supervision of the respective heads of depart-
ments. There are six especially qualified aviation instructors who
do duty in all departments closely following the Pensacola practice,
changing it where necessary to conform to the Academy's methods.
The regular academy officers follow and study the lesson assign-


  p. 1641 (#567)                      #


Naval Academy Photo
ENGINE TESTING PLANT AND A SECTION OF CLASS OF 1926


  p. 1642 (#568)                      #

1642
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ments in their respective departments and are required to be ready
at any call to carry on the instruction in the ground subjects.
Written examinations are held upon the completion of each subject.
The class was divided into four companies of three sections
each for administrative and classroom purposes, the number in the
sections being from twelve to thirteen.
The officers of the Flight Division previously referred to, gave
the practical flight instruction.
Textbooks.—These are the so-called Pensacola manuals (three
volumes) revised to date, being the same books that are to be used
by the next aviation class to be assembled at Pensacola. These
books cover the following: aerial navigation, aviation engines,
aerology, aviation history, aerial gunnery, bombing, scouting,
aircraft communications, theory of flight, and structure and
rigging. (Practical flying and water handling of seaplanes is
no longer in these manuals but is given from another text and
in connection with practical work.)
Assignment of Time.—The daily assignment of time (Sunday
and the afternoons of Wednesday and Saturday excepted) is as
follows:
8:00 A.M.
to 8:40 A.M. First period
8:50 A.M.
to 9:50 A.M. Second period
10:00 A.M.
to 11:00 A.M.
Third period
II:10 A.M.
12:10 P.M.
Fourth period
1:30 P.M.
2:10 P.M.
Fifth period
2:20 P.M.
3:20 P.M.
Sixth period
7:45 P.M.
9:30 P.M. Study period
The first and fifth periods during the first two months are
assigned to radio code practice, forty minutes twice daily. This
is approximately one-third less than at Pensacola but it is designed
to give a reception of from fifteen to sixteen code words per
minute and several have already exceeded this (written July 13).
The class is divided into four groups according to progress, the
keys being manned by expert enlisted instructor-operators. There
was no radio code practice in August except (from 4:00 P.m. to
4:30 P.M.) for those who are not up to the required standard.
The radio code practice is under the Department of Electrical
Engineering and Physics.
to
9.9°


  p. 1643 (#569)                      #

1925)
1643
Aviation at the Naval Academy
All study and preparation of lesson assignments is done between
7:45 P.M. and 9:30 P.M. and outside of the time allotted to recita-
tions and lectures.
To save time the entire class marches off at 8:00 A.M. to radio
code practice—ten minutes allowed to march directly to the section
rooms for the second period, and so forth, so no return is made to
Bancroft Hall until after 12.10 P.M. and then for the midday meal.
The same procedure obtains at 1:30 P.M.
The time from 3:10 P.M. to supper formation is for recreational
exercise and necessary additional study.
The first two academic months (June and July) are devoted to
theoretical subjects supplemented by practical work (and to radio
code practice). The practical work carried on in conjunction with
the text consists of eighteen hours in "structure and rigging” (eight
hours theory), and of twenty-four hours in “engines” (ten hours
theory). The practical work is in disassembly and assembly of
planes and engines.
Theoretical Subjects.—The following table shows the assign-
ment of subjects by hours to departments :
Total
Hours
Departments
Seamanship and Flight
Tactics
Subjects
Aviation History
Hours
3
Navigation
Aircraft Communications 4
Aerology
Scouting
Examinations
........35
Navigational Instruments
Aerial Navigation
Examinations
4........
Structure and Rigging
Engines
Examinations
........24
Theory of Flight
Engineering and Aeronautics
Electrical Engineering and
Physics
.......
Ordnance and Gunnery
Examination
Ground Gunnery
Bombing
Examinations
......
·36
Total
121


  p. 1644 (#570)                      #

1644
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The third academic month (August) is made up of twenty-four
forenoon periods of four hours and ten minutes each, devoted to
practical work in the Departments of Seamanship and Flight
Tactics, Navigation, and Ordnance and Gunnery. This work,
all purely aviation, together with the practical work in the first
two months is shown in the following table.
Seamanship and Flight Tactics
Hours per Midshipman
624 flying hours for 150 midshipmen
(4 to a seaplane) as passenger observers in duties of second
pilot, radio man, gunner and mechanic, and navigator. In-
struction in rules of the road; controls, water handling, but
short of solo flying ; sending and receiving radio messages;
target practice; taking sights; plotting positions and intercept
problems. (Four hours in each position.).........
Electrical Engineering and Physics
Radio code practice and examinations .....
Ordnance and gunnery
Range gunnery ...........
Engineering and aeronautics
Structure and rigging ......
Engines
Total hours 126
The afternoon periods in August from 1:30 P.M. to 3:20 P.M.
are of a practical nature—drills held by the Departments of Sea-
manship and Flight Tactics (ten hours), Ordnance and Gunnery
(six hours), Electrical Engineering and Physics (six hours), and
by the Executive Department (ten hours). While some of these
drills bear indirectly on aviation they are not so classified in the
summarizing table to follow. They are designed to bring out,
test, and classify the essential qualities of aptitude of the midship-
men and to make up for certain essentials missed by them on
first-class cruise. This is particularly true of the thirty-two hours
of practical work in navigation given during eight forenoons in
August. One forenoon each to navigation and radio code practice
(examinations) during August completes the practical work not
solely connected with aviation.
During the night-study periods in August twelve one-hour
lectures were delivered on aviation subjects.


  p. 1645 (#571)                      #

1925)
1645
Aviation at the Naval Academy
A Summary of the Course as regards the division of time is
shown in the following table:
Hours
(a) Recitations, lectures, and practical work in purely aviation
subjects
(b) Assigned study periods
(c) Lectures in August (nights) ..
...........
343
Total
(d) Drills not solely connected with aviation but for tests in
aptitude
.......
72
Grand Total 415
This, with the 6,628 hours in the four-year course, makes a
total of 7,043 hours of theoretical and practical instruction which
is given to each graduate at the Academy before he joins the fleet
for his first commissioned service. Of the 7,043 hours, 1,087
hours are now given directly or indirectly to aviation, or 15
per cent.
It seems fairly certain, judging from the past, that more and
more aviation will be added to the four-year curriculum and that
the more advanced ground school and fight work will be taken
up each succeeding summer for the graduating class.
In conclusion, it may be said that the midshipmen have displayed
the keenest interest in this course and to date not a single complaint
has reached the authorities from any source as to the actual flying
involved.
Author's Note.-Since above was written the time of flight instruction in
the air was reduced from sixteen to eight hours.


  p. 1646 (#572)                      #

NAVAL AVIATION TRAINING
CAPTAIN JAMES J. RABY, U. S. N.
T HE Navy has its only station for training heavier-than-air
aviators at Pensacola, having converted to this use, at con-
siderable expense, the old-time navy yard. The beautiful
harbor and the favorable weather conditions make it an excellent
place for seaplane training, and a small field on the naval reserva-
tion, together with the much larger ground seven miles away
known as Corry Field-provided by the Pensacola Chamber of
Commerce give fair facilities for landplane training.
Classes of aviation students are ordered here twice yearly, about
the first of January and of July. The candidates are selected from
young line officers and marine officers who volunteer for the duty,
and to be eligible a line officer must have had at least two years in
the feet after receiving his commission. Perhaps 40 per cent
of the volunteers fail on the physical requirements before being
sent to Pensacola. The classes, about 40 per cent of which are
officers of the Marine Corps, vary in number from forty to
seventy. The course is nine months, the first month being devoted
to ground school, the next five to seaplane training and ground
school combined, when the successful student is designated a naval
aviator, and then three months to landplane training and advanced
seaplane work. About 30 per cent of the students, because of
physical defects, failure in ground school, or inaptitude for flying,
fail to qualify as naval aviators, and are detached as soon as dis-
qualified. In addition to the classes for officers, about once in two
years a class of enlisted men is put through the first six months'
course, and those successfully completing it are designated naval
aviation pilots. Upon completion of the course the aviators and
pilots are assigned duty at different air stations ashore and afloat,
where they continue their training.
To produce a naval aviator is a problem of some complexity.
In both the selection of candidates and their training there must
be employed the precepts that experience dictates, and, in addition,


  p. 1647 (#573)                      #

19251
1647
Naval Aviation Training
all thať ingenuity can devise, for aviation, with all its dash and
thrills, is a serious, sober business.
To be fit material for aviation training, a man must be peculiarly
adapted to the work, the requirements falling under three head-
ings, mental, physical, psychological. In the selection of officer-
students it is unnecessary to be concerned with the first of these,
since anyone holding a commission in the service has demonstrated
his mental competency. At the same time the rather rigid physical
requirements for the line of the Navy and Marine Corps are not
sufficient for aviation. Flight duty requires a sense of balance,
acute hearing and vision, ability to carry on in rarefied atmosphere,
excellent judgment of depth, freedom from vertigo, and immunity,
as shown by his health record, to many common diseases. Then
comes the psychological make-up. What are a man's reactions,
his complex? What does he worry about? Has he a normal out-
look on life? Why does he want to fly—for the extra pay, for
professional advancement, for the sheer joy of flying? Is he
reckless or conservative, timid or over-cautious? Is he wide
awake, alert, on the job, lazy, lackadaisical? What are his morals,
and what his personal habits. All these things must be determined
before a man is designated for aviation training, and all through his
period of training the student is carefully watched by instructors,
the flight surgeons, and the air station staff.
The training course begins with a session during which the com-
mandant welcomes the class with a fatherly talk on safety first,
temperance, morale, and a few kindred subjects. The captain of
the yard follows with a short discourse on the observance of
station orders and yard regulations and the desirability of keeping
fit by engaging in athletics, and then the superintendent of training
schools lectures on the training syllabus. The students are given
one flight each to give them “the feel of the air”—and, incidentally,
to begin their flight pay.
The next four weeks are devoted to ground school, which is a
most strenuous time for the students, for in addition to a half
hour's exercise each morning in calisthenics designed to develop
a student's reactions when he takes to flying, and to train him not
to get dizzy in spins, loops, and other aerial maneuvers, he spends
many hours each day and well into the night studying aviation
indoctrination, theory of flight, description, structure, rigging, and


  p. 1648 (#574)                      #

1648
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
inspection of aircraft, aviation engines, signals and communica-
tions, aerology, navigation, scouting, spotting, radio, and practical
flying. In addition to the lectures and textbook study, he also
devotes considerable time to models of planes, motors, and other
equipment. The students practice radio code work over an hour
each day. Frequent examinations are held to grade the students.
Naval aviators must be good radio operators, so that a great
deal of time is spent in receiving and sending messages. Before
qualifying as an aviator, a student must be able to receive twenty
words a minute in English, code, or foreign languages.
After a month of ground school, Aight training begins, though
ground work continues for about two months longer. The class
is divided into sections, one section flying in the morning and
taking ground school in the afternoon, while the other section has
ground school in the morning and flying in the afternoon. Each
flight instructor has about four students.
The first training a student receives is in a seaplane known as
the N-9, a double-seater dual-control plane that flies comparatively
slowly, and is as safe as an airplane can be. In this he flies hori-
zontally at a speed under fifty miles an hour. He wears a Gosport
helmet so fitted that by means of a flexible tube the instructor
can at all times speak to him. The student, however, cannot talk
back, a necessary arrangement here as elsewhere. After ten hours
of dual instruction, during which time the student is taught to
control the plane under all conditions, he is given a check hop by
the chief instructor to determine if the student is qualified to solo,
that is, fly by himself. If competent to fly alone, he is turned
loose to solo. If not he is given three hours' further instruction,
after which he must prove himself proficient, or find himself a
finished aviator—absolutely finished.
After a successful check, the student solos for thirty hours, and
at the end of each five hours is given a check hop by his instructor.
On the final check, the student is required to do two loops in suc-
cession, reverse turns, falling leaf, right and left spins, one hour
of formation flying, and a precision landing test that consists of
climbing to 6,000 feet, spiraling to 3,000 feet, cutting the switch
to the magneto so that gravity is the only force acting on the plane,
then making two complete turns in a spiral, and effecting a normal


  p. 1649 (#575)                      #

1925]
1649
Naval Aviation Training
landing within 200 feet of a set mark. About this time in the
course, advantage of a full moon is taken to practice night Aying.
After passing the thirty hour check, the student is now ready
for instruction in the intermediate single-engine boat-typed sea-
plane called the HS boat. After five to seven hours dual instruc-
tion he solos this boat ten hours and then passes on to the advanced
boat seaplane training conducted in a large twin-motored seaplane
called the F-5-L, in which he receives six hours dual instruction
and solos for ten hours.
Though now qualified to fly, the student must take up gunnery
and bombing and make certain aerial navigation flights before he
becomes a naval aviator. After instruction in the machine gun
and firing on a shore range, he fires from his plane at a stationary
target and at a target towed by another aircraft. From this work
he proceeds with his bombing instruction, after which he drops
miniature bombs at stationary targets from various heights and
then at a moving target towed by a surface vessel ; finally he drops
service bombs. His course now takes him to aerial navigation,
where he solves three problems: first, coast piloting; second, sea-
ward patrol; third, a flight to intercept a surface craft. The stu-
dent solves each problem in three capacities: first as pilot; second
as observer or navigator, and third as radio operator, so that he
gets nine navigation flights. The successful student now, after six
strenuous months, becomes a qualified naval aviator and is per-
mitted to wear his much-coveted wings.
The class next proceeds with landplane training, which includes
some cross-country work, and the students are divided, some being
assigned to an advanced course in scouting, others to combat work,
while the rest take up spotting or torpedo-plane flying. This part
of the training being completed in about three months, the officers
are detached and ordered to duty with the aircraft squadrons of
the fleet or assigned to other air stations on shore.
To train its students the station overhauls, maintains, and
operates ninety airplanes of twelve different types, a seagoing tug,
a sub-chaser, five forty-knot seasleds, and a number of smaller
craft.
Occasionally there are accidents, especially during the period
when students are getting in their first twenty hours in the air.
There is at Pensacola an excellent system of taking care of crashes


  p. 1650 (#576)                      #

1650
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
in the bay. A steel tower 180 feet high has been erected at a
point overlooking all parts of the flying courses. Four men, in
charge of a petty officer, are on watch in this tower at all times
while planes are in the air, each man constantly scanning a quarter
of the horizon. Since no plane is permitted to get out of range of
vision from the tower, when a crash occurs it is sighted almost
before the plane strikes the water. Instantly the crash bell rings
in the dispensary and at the dock. Doctors and hospital corpsmen
rush to the dock where a forty-knot seasled is waiting with engine
running. Within a minute after the crash, the seasled, with doctor
and attendants on board, is speeding across the bay to the scene of
the accident, followed by the “Mary Ann," a floating crane, to pick
up the wreckage. Boats are stationed at different points in the
bay to render assistance. When students are flying at Corry Field,
an ambulance and an ambulance plane are stationed there. The
plane has a stretcher and a doctor's seat in it behind the pilot's
cockpit. In a recent crash the patient arrived at the dispensary
seven miles from the scene of the accident before the news of the
crash could be telephoned to the Air Station. The plane made the
trip in four minutes.
When the large seaplanes take long flights along the coast or
into the gulf, radio communication is maintained and their bearing
is kept track of from the radio compass station. Such planes
always carry homing pigeons for exercise or use in case of neces-
sity. The station has ninety trained pigeons. A seagoing tug is
always available to proceed immediately if a plane makes a forced
landing and requires assistance. .
As weather information is very important in aviation, there is
an aerological school at the Air Station, where enlisted men study
all phases of meteorology. The officer in charge of this school, a
naval aviator, in addition to conducting the school and giving
lectures to the student aviators, is also the aerologist of the station.
Much dependence is placed on his forecasts in carrying out the
daily flight routine and in authorizing cross-country flights. He
keeps in close touch with the Weather Bureau, but, in addition,
makes frequent flights to high altitudes in a powerful plane to
examine cloud formations at close range and to make a compre-
hensive survey of the surrounding weather conditions; meanwhile,
his various instruments are automatically recording the pressure,


  p. 1651 (#577)                      #

1925)
1651
Naval Aviation Training
temperature, and humidity of the atmosphere through which he
passes. Further, he sends from the laboratory at regular intervals
during the day into the air small rubber balloons inflated with
hydrogen, which are followed to great heights by means of theodo-
lites, and their courses through the free air are plotted later. From
all these data his weather map is drawn and his forecasts are made
with a high degree of accuracy.
There is also a photographic school where enlisted men and
officers are trained, not only in ordinary photographic work, but in
aerial photography, and the making of mosaic maps. An officer,
a qualified naval aviator, has charge of this school.
The morale of the station is excellent and the spirit of the
personnel is all that could be desired. The interest of the students
is maintained with enthusiasm. All forms of athletics are en-
couraged and the teams are excellent.
When the students leave Pensacola as qualified naval aviators,
they still lack experience but their training is continued after they
join the fleet or report at other stations, and every added ex-
perience makes them better and more conservative flyers. Navy
and marine corps aviators are really a wonderful lot of men, and
the service needs more of them.


  p. 1652 (#578)                      #

AVIATION IN COAST DEFENSE
BY CAPTAIN A. W. JOHNSON, U. S. NAVY
VIATION has furnished a powerful weapon for coast de-
fense. It also has made more difficult the problem of coast
defense by introducing the possibility of hostile air raids.
Everybody knows that aircraft can fly over land and water, and
that they can carry bombs that can sink surface craft. This has
created an impression that air forces acting alone, without support
of the other elements of the Army or Navy, can effectively defend
our coasts and protect shipping along our coasts. Some persons
have gone so far as to propose that the duty of patrolling the
coastal sea lanes be taken away from the Navy and turned over
entirely to the Army Air Service. It is unimportant to the people
of the United States who does this work so long as it is done
well. Herein is the crux of the whole question.
I. CONTROL OF SEA AREAS
In considering the subject of coast defense it is necessary to
visualize the conditions we shall find in actual warfare at sea. To
conduct and to control mercantile and military transportation by
sea in time of war requires naval power. As long as men and
merchandise are transported in ships in the sea—and there is no
likelihood that this mode of transportation ever will be superseded
—navies will be required to safeguard overseas interests. The
great bulk of the world's maritime trade must always be carried
in surface ships, for submarines and aircraft are inherently un-
economical as freight carriers and never can compete successfully
with surface ships in oversea commerce. Therefore, the principal
task of naval forces—whether submarine, surface, or aerial—is
to control the highways on the surface of the sea.
Unless supported by seacraft, aircraft probably never will be
able to exercise uninterrupted control over large or remote sea
areas. Aircraft and seacraft are both limited as to the time and
the distance that they can operate away from a base, but the time


  p. 1653 (#579)                      #

1925)
1653
Aviation in Coast Defense
that aircraft can remain in the air compared to the time that ships
can remain at sea is so short that ships probably will always be
the controlling factor in the larger sea areas, with aircraft acting
to assist them.
II. Mission of Coast DEFENSE
Coast defense is defense not only against invasion in force from
overseas, but against all other forms of hostile coastal activities..
It involves protection of shipping, of cities, and of vital communi-
cations against attack by sea craft, aircraft, and landing parties.
Against all these forms of attack every force that can contribute to
the enemy's defeat should be utilized. Naval forces alone may be
sufficient in some cases, army forces alone in other cases, and
sometimes it may be necessary to combine both forces to defeat the
enemy.
Attacks against coastal areas are of two kinds: major attacks by
large forces, and minor attacks or raids by small forces.
It is the duty of the U. S. fleet to intercept on the high seas any
large expedition contemplating a descent in force on the coasts,
and to engage it before any actual damage can be effected or
landing made. If the fleet is defeated the task of repelling inva-
sion falls to the Army. Major attacks of this character will not be
discussed, as we are here concerned with the forces established
for the specific duty of coast defense.
Minor attacks or raids in the coastal areas by small enemy
forces, such as submarines, destroyers, cruisers, and aircraft
carriers, cannot always be met by the main fleets and armies, and
it is to provide for such contingencies that coast defense forces
are required.
The main fleet should not be confined to the duty of defending
particular sections of the coast against minor attacks. It should
be free to carry out its greater mission of gaining and maintaining
control of the sea, which is most effectively accomplished by
destroying, neutralizing, or bottling up the enemy's naval forces.
Control of the sea will of itself forestall any invasion in force
from overseas and free the mobile army to engage in other
missions.


  p. 1654 (#580)                      #

1654
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
III. INFLUENCE OF SEA POWER
In our last three wars the Navy controlled the seas, and the
Army fought in Europe, in Cuba, and in the Philippines. In the
Civil War, and the war with Mexico, we had little opposition at
sea. The Army was not needed for coast defense, and was able to
win the war by defeating the enemy's armies on their own soil.
The Navy prevented supplies reaching the enemy by sea, and was
able to transport troops and supplies by sea to the enemy's ports.
But, in the War of 1812, when England was "Mistress of the
Seas," our little Navy and our merchant ships were bottled up at
home, save the few ships that escaped the British blockading
forces and reached the high sea. Some of these ships succeeded
in raids on British shipping. In this war a British squadron
landed sailors and soldiers on American soil, marched to Wash-
ington, and destroyed the Capitol, White House, and other build-
ings. The deciding battle of the Revolution, at Yorktown, was
won because the French fleet in Chesapeake Bay cut off Cornwallis
from the British fleet outside. The daring exploits of Paul Jones
in this war illustrate a type of raiding operations which must be
guarded against, and the Navy is obligated to take defensive
measures against such attacks as well as against the threats of a
major force.
IV. Coast DEFENSE FORCES
What forces are available for coast defense ? Leaving out the
main fleet and main army, the forces available for defense are
the local defense forces of the Army and Navy. The local coast
defense forces of the Navy include surface craft, submarines, and
naval aircraft, armed with guns, mines, bombs, and torpedoes.
The surface craft include destroyers, mine sweepers, tugs, salvage
vessels, sub-chasers, and small patrol craft. Other elements of
the Navy in coastal areas are: the industrial establishments for the
maintenance, repair and supply of the naval forces; the communi-
cation system including radio and radio compass stations; the
intelligence system, including the life saving and lighthouse
services, and detachments of marines.
The army coast defense forces are composed of the various
arms of the Army, the fixed and mobile artillery, including rail-
way and tractor-drawn heavy artillery, searchlights, anti-aircraft


  p. 1655 (#581)                      #

1925]
1655
Aviation in Coast Defense
guns, army aircraft, the mine planters for laying observation mine
fields, and fixed obstructions.
V. CAPABILITIES OF NAVAL TYPES IN Coast DEFENSE
Let us now examine the capabilities of the various types of
naval craft for coast defense.
Aircraft.—The development of bombing has given to aircraft
great offensive qualities against sea and land forces. Aircraft
provide the best defense against other aircraft. The high speed
and great range of vision of aircraft make them particularly
valuable for scouting. They are superior to seacraft for searching
out a given area in a minimum time. Seacraft are better adapted
for maintaining a continuous patrol in areas distant from a base,
because they can patrol day and night, in fair and foul weather,
for a long time without returning to their base for fuel. Airplanes
cannot do this unless based on sea craft; they must fly from their
shore bases out to the scouting area, and return to their shore
bases daily for fuel. Flying back and forth from the base con-
sumes a large amount of fuel and reduces the number of hours
available for scouting and patrolling the area. The wear and tear
on engines and planes is considerable, and if the patrol is to be
maintained indefinitely over an extensive line, large reserves of
planes and engines for replacement are required.
Carriers. By using aircraft carriers as bases, the scouting area
for airplanes can be extended seaward, but it must be remembered
that aviators will experience greater difficulties in operating con-
tinuously from carriers at sea, and locating them when returning
from a scouting mission than when returning from a scouting
mission to an air base ashore. An aircraft carrier while on her
station in a patrol area would be subject to submarine and possibly
surface attacks.
Submarines. Submarines are especially valuable for patrol and
scouting duty, and are excellent either for offensive or defensive
work. They can operate independently and continuously in distant
areas without supporting forces, for long periods of time, and they
are less liable to be seen or destroyed by hostile forces than any
other type of patrol craft, but they have the disadvantage of slow
speed, and limited vision.


  p. 1656 (#582)                      #

1656
(Sept.
U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Airships.-Rigid airships possess some, though not all, of the
advantages of aircraft and seacraft for scouting and patrol duty.
Like airplanes, they have extensive vision and great speed. Like
ships, they can slow down, stop, and even back, and have an exten-
sive operating range. But, though vulnerable to gunfire they may,
by keeping out of gun range, pierce a screen of hostile surface
vessels which surface scouts themselves might be unable to pierce.
Although they can easily keep out of range of surface craft, they
cannot outrun or outclimb the airplane, but may carry airplanes to
a limited extent for protection. They have no great offensive
value in sea warfare, and are less reliable as operating units than
seacraft. Under favorable conditions they can cover larger areas
in a given time than seacraft, and can supplement light cruisers to
a certain extent for scouting, but not for screening duty.
VI. COORDINATION OF TYPES
Each type, submarine, surface vessels, airplane, aircraft carrier,
and airship, has advantages and disadvantages peculiar to itself.
A skillful naval commander will carefully consider every available
type of craft in organizing his forces and in planning their work.
He will use each type to the best advantage, assigning each unit
to the task that it is best fitted to perform and coordinating the
efforts of all to accomplish most effectively the mission of the
whole organization. Such an organization composed of different
units is like the human body which is composed of different mem-
bers, each performing its allotted task, all directed by one mind.
In a scouting or patrol force each unit is an eye that watches over
its allotted sector, and instantly communicates by radio—the
Navy's nerve system—what it sees to the mind of the organization,
and, at the direction of this mind, force is applied most effectively.
Only such an organization can effectively perform the manifold
duties connected with high sea scouting and coastal patrol.
VII. CHARACTER OF COASTAL OPERATIONS
The operations necessary for coast defense are of two kinds :
precautionary measures and counter attacks. Precautionary meas-
ures include scouting and patrolling, escorting and convoying,
mine sweeping and mine laying, and operations of the intelligence
and communication systems. Counter attacks are those operations


  p. 1657 (#583)                      #

1925]
1657
Aviation in Coast Defense
designed to repulse the enemy attack when it is developed by the
precautionary measures. Both functions require combination of
forces to accomplish best results.
VIII. SCOUTING AND PATROLLING
An enenıy's best chance of success lies in surprise attacks. To
prevent surprise by the enemy he must be discovered far enough
away from our coast to give sufficient time to our forces to con-
centrate, intercept, and attack him. The farther away the enemy
is discovered the greater time our forces will have to concentrate
and attack him. The Navy's far flung scouting forces at sea
afford the best means of locating him at the earliest moment.
After locating him they should maintain contact with him and
continually report the position, strength, and disposition of his
forces. While the enemy approaches the coast our forces can con-
centrate and advance to meet him under the most favorable con-
ditions. For scouting and patrolling in the coastal areas the Navy
uses aircraft, both lighter-than-air and heavier-than-air, surface
craft and submarines. They are based on naval coastal shore
bases, which are also used for fitting out, repair, replacement,
supply, and mobilization of material and personnel, and on mobile
tenders operating along the coast. They are disposed in such
manner as to cover given areas most effectively and permit the
maximum concentration of force on the enemy in minimum time.
The nationality and character of shipping encountered in the
coastal areas must be ascertained by patrol craft. To do this they
must exercise the right of search, and therefore must be surface
vessels. How can the duty of visiting and searching vessels for
contraband be performed by aircraft unassisted by surface vessels ?
A seaplane may land on the water in fair weather close to the
vessel and send a man on board. The Germans, in the last war,
tried this with their submarines. It worked well at first. But
later, when guns were mounted on merchant ships, and were
turned with deadly effect on the submarines, they were forced to
abandon the practice of searching vessels at sea. The submarines
retaliated by firing torpedoes and sinking ships on sight, remaining
submerged without danger to themselves until the ships had been
sunk. This violated international law and practice. A seaplane
on the water would be helpless if exposed to gunfire from a ship.


  p. 1658 (#584)                      #

1658
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
To avoid danger to themselves pilots of airplanes, if they wished
to do so, could bomb merchant vessels on sight, whether prohibited
by international law or not. Such practices by any country would
force it into the same situation with respect to neutrals in which
Germany found herself when her submarines began sinking
neutral ships without warning. An airplane could drop a note on
the ship or give her radio or visual signal instructions to proceed
to a designated port for examination, but it would be impracticable
for the airplane to escort the ship into port to insure that the
instructions were carried out.
For detecting the presence of submarines certain classes of
vessels of the coast defense forces are equipped with listening
devices. These “hear” the sounds made by submarines running
submerged and it is possible to locate the submarines when the
"hunting squadrons” equipped with these devices are skillfully
handled. Submarines also use listening devices in their work
against surface craft and other submarines. Combination of all
types of naval forces is necessary for the most effective scouting
and patrolling of sea areas.
IX. ESCORTING AND CONVOYING
If we are to safeguard our own shipping where it is subject to
repeated attack we must protect it with escorts. Consider a twelve
knot convoy escorted by airplanes. These have a cruising speed
of say ninety miles an hour and a flying radius of a thousand
miles. Assume that they can remain in the air twelve hours.
They will have to leave the convoy after about ten hours of escort
duty in order to return to their bases before running out of fuel.
This would furnish a twelve knot convoy with an airplane escort
for about 120 miles beyond the shore line. To escort further by
airplanes would require a relief escort. In thick weather, the air-
plane might lose sight of the convoy and would then fail to afford
it protection. At night when the convoy was running without
lights, as would be necessary in time of war, the same thing might
happen. If one of the ships of the convoy were torpedoed she
could not be salvaged or towed back to port by airplanes. She
might sink, as often happened in the last war, but airplanes could
not rescue the passengers.


  p. 1659 (#585)                      #

1925]
1659
Aviation in Coast Defense
This all means that surface ships are absolutely essential for the
efficient performance of patrol and convoy duty at sea both inshore
and offshore, and that means a navy—a navy like the United
States Navy with its own aircraft. The need for the latter in
addition to ships, is shown below.
We know that during the World War the Navy, in cooperation
with the allied navies, kept open our sea communications and
effectually intercepted the sea communications of the enemy
powers. During this period, while the Navy was escorting and
convoying over two million army troops and all of their supplies
overseas, the Navy played a most important part in "winning the
war.” The air forces of the United States Navy flew over two
and one half million miles, patrolling the seas from the various
coastal air stations in the United States, England, Ireland, France,
Italy, and Canada. Four hundred of our naval airplanes were
engaged in this work abroad while the army air forces were being
carried overseas or fighting on the western front. Thirty-seven
enemy submarines were attacked by naval aircraft. These naval
aircraft were working in cooperation with hundreds of surface
ships and submarines, all of which were commanded by and
operated under the immediate orders of naval officers in accordance
with a definite joint plan. Aircraft surface vessels, and sub-
marines were mutually helpful, and the best results were obtained
by a combination of all types.
Let us see how these operations were carried out. Take a
convoy assembling in one of our great harbors, and suppose that
enemy submarines and raiders may be actively operating in that
vicinity.
The naval commander of the coastal areas is the officer ap-
pointed to direct and coordinate the work of the naval coastal
defense forces, which include all types of naval craft, surface, sub-
marine, and air. He is charged with the responsibility of assem-
bling the convoy. He must furnish it with radio and signal
instructions and sailing directions, must provide the necessary
naval escorts, including naval aircraft, and must assure himself
that the coastal waters through which the convoy is to pass are
clear of mines and enemy craft.
The convoy is assembled; the orders to the commanding officers
have been given; the course, speed, formations to be taken within


  p. 1660 (#586)                      #

1660
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
and without the coastal areas have been made known to the com-
manders of all units, merchant and naval, engaged in the operation.
All is secure inside the anchorage. The convoy and escorting
vessels are ready to sail. Outside the anchorage naval aircraft
and other naval units have been scouting over the area through
which the convoy will pass to drive clear any hostile surface craft
or submarines. Other naval aircraft are flying over the channel
to see if they can locate any enemy mines, and the mine sweepers
are at work in the channel. The naval district commandant, in
touch by radio and telephone with all of his units, knows exactly
what is going on outside of the harbor. He receives reports as to
when the channels have been swept clear, and knows when it is
safe to move the convoy.
The harbor defense net is opened to permit the convoy to pass
out, and the convoy gets underway. The van of the coastal escort,
consisting of sub-chasers and other vessels, precedes the convoy
out of the harbor and takes station ahead and on the flanks of the
convoy column as the ships in pre-determined order pass down the
swept channel. They steam out to sea, and as they reach the open
water they deploy to their designated positions in the formation to
be maintained during the voyage and commence zigzagging as pre-
scribed in their instructions. The smaller vessels and aircraft of
the escort that have been safeguarding the convoy through the
narrow waters now begin to leave the convoy to return to their
base, while the destroyers and larger vessels of the escort continue
with the convoy until relieved by the high sea escort.
The responsibility of the naval district commandant, who has
been in charge of all these arrangements, ends only when the
coastal escort has safely turned over the convoy to the commander
of the high sea escort, who becomes responsible for insuring the
safe passage of the convoy over the sea. The fleet will have dis-
posed units strategically to safeguard further this and other con-
voys in their transoceanic voyages.
Meantime, other convoys, and shipping, are approaching the
coast. Their movements are made known to the naval head-
quarters in the district through the naval communications service,
and the same provision must be made for the safety of incoming
vessels as was made for the safety of the outgoing convoy just


  p. 1661 (#587)                      #

1925]
1661
Aviation in Coast Defense
described. These great arteries of sea commerce must be protected
by the Navy day and night throughout the war.
During the last war, when the submarine campaign was so
active along the coasts of our allies, the allied convoys on approach-
ing the war zone were met far out at sea by properly organized
and instructed escorts of naval vessels, which automatically carried
the convoy on to the coastal areas, all under the control of naval
officers. As they approached the coast they were met by other
types of naval craft, including naval aircraft, .which continued to
safeguard the convoy through the narrow submarine-infested
waters. These convoys were made up of ships from all parts of
the world, flying the flags of the allied nations. There were fast
troop convoys bound for the coast of France. There were convoys
of food and munition ships, of moderate speed, supplying the feet
in the north of Scotland and the armies on the western front.
There was a continuous flow of small and large convoys bound for
the channel ports and the Mediterranean, carrying valuable cargoes
of food stuffs and merchandise for the millions toiling in the
factories behind the allied lines. Provision had to be made by the
Navy for continually safeguarding this incessant flow of shipping,
outbound and inbound, from shore line to shore line. The elaborate
organization to maintain the necessary escorts of the proper type,
to provide them at the proper time and place, and to collect and
disseminate the information necessary to coordinate all work was
completely under the control of the naval service. The success
with which the Navy carried out these duties during the last war
was due solely to the fact that the Navy is organized, trained and
equipped for this kind of work. It can be said, without exaggera-
tion, that the organization and discipline of the convoys and escorts
was as nearly perfect as it is humanly possible for any organization
to be. Here, again, we see the combination of air and sea forces.
X. MINE LAYING AND Mine SWEEPING
Mining operations are important in coast defense because all
classes of ships are vulnerable to mines. Many vessels, including
battleships, submarines and merchant vessels, were destroyed by
them in the last war. Channels must be swept clear of mines in
the shipping lanes to insure the safe passage of vessels. Mine
layers acting on the offensive lay mines off the enemy's coast, and


  p. 1662 (#588)                      #

1662
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
when on the defensive lay mines to protect given areas off our
own coast. An American mine squadron laid a mine barrage of
over 50,000 mines in the North Sea during the last war, and
cleared the barrage by sweeping up the mines at the end of the
war. Mines may be laid by surface craft and by submarines
equipped for the purpose. It would be possible for an airplane
to lay a mine, but neither submarines nor aircraft are capable of
sweeping up mines. All this work must be under the direction of
the naval commander who must coordinate all activities of the
coast defense forces to insure the safety of shipping.
XI. INTELLIGENCE AND COMMUNICATION SYSTEM
In all military operations, in every theater of action on the
land, at sea, and in the air—accurate and timely information con-
cerning enemy movements is essential to success. The service of
information at sea is maintained by the naval scouting and patrol
forces which are inseparable from the organization they serve
the Navy. The contacts of all these forces with the naval com-
mander-in-chief must be direct, accurate, and swift. The informa-
tion must be guarded and flow uninterruptedly to the directing
centers of operations ashore and afloat where it is analyzed, acted
upon and despatched to all forces having need of it. All units of
the fleet and naval coast defense forces are integral parts of the
naval communication organization. This organization includes
also the naval radio stations on shore, the radio direction finders
for locating enemy vessels, and the coastal signal service.
XII. COUNTER ATTACKS
If an attack develops after the precautionary measures have
been taken, it should be met by counter attack. The strong arm
for counter attack at sea is the main fleet, but to meet attacks by
seacraft or by aircraft within gun range or within flying range of
the coast, there are available the naval coast defense forces, and the
aircraft and artillery of the Army. Beyond Aying range of the
coast, only naval forces would be available. For counter attacks
against surface vessels, guns, torpedoes, mines, and aerial bombs
may be used. In addition, the depth bomb would be used against
submarines, but for counter attacks against aircraft the machine
gun carried in aircraft is the most effective weapon.


  p. 1663 (#589)                      #

1925]
1663
Aviation in Coast Defense
Picture a situation in which an overseas enemy plans an air-
craft attack upon one of our principal cities. He must transport
his aircraft across the sea in ships to some point within flying
range of the objective before he can launch the attack. The
attacking airplanes will have to operate from aircraft carriers or
from suitable shore bases in his possession. While the enemy is
at sea, and until his ships have reached the point of attack, the
problem is distinctly a naval one.
The Navy may prevent the enemy from bringing his aircraft
carriers to a favorable point, or may prevent him from establishing
a shore base within flying range of the coast. But, once the enemy
aircraft have taken the air to attack our cities, only our own air-
craft can intercept and defeat them. Fast combat planes are
necessary to intercept and defeat the enemy bombers and combat
planes accompanying them. The attacking aircraft have an initial
advantage difficult to overcome because they can choose their time
and their objective, take advantage of weather or darkness to
insure surprise, and reach the desired ceiling before the defending
planes ca ndo so. Naval aircraft of the coast defense forces con-
sist principally of patrolling, scouting, torpedo and bombing planes,
designed principally for use against aircraft, and are not intended
primarily for use against air attacks. Against air attacks of this
kind, which by whatever means have avoided our fleet, we rely
entirely upon the army pursuit planes which are provided for this
purpose. The Navy does not maintain pursuit planes on shore
bases or stations other than for training purposes. The Army
Air Service has the responsibility of meeting attacks of this kind
and should be adequately equipped for the purpose. Our main
reliance against air attacks of this kind is in the greater number of
army pursuit planes available.
XIII. UNITY OF COMMAND
For coast defense the Navy is the first line, and the Army is the
second line. If the first line falls back upon the coast the two lines
merge into one. It is generally recognized that when these lines
merge, or whenever there is joint action between the Army and
Navy, there should be unity of command, but it is not always
clear exactly what is meant by unity of command. Some persons
unfamiliar with the many activities connected with coast defense


  p. 1664 (#590)                      #

1664
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
believe that all coast defense should be placed under control of
the Army. Others believe that all such activities should be placed
under the Navy, because coast defense activities are mostly naval.
History abounds in striking illustrations where violation of the
principle of unity of command has resulted disastrously. The
difficulties of coordinating operations of joint forces—particularly
in coast defense—would be greatly increased if, instead of having
to coordinate the two existing organizations of the Army and
Navy, it were necessary to coordinate with them a third inde-
pendent organization, as would be the case if there were a separate
air force.
Unity of command of joint forces should be directed com-
mand which is only general in character. The commander states
in general what is to be done, but does not say how it is to be done.
The commands of the separate task forces are absolute, the com-
manders specifying in detail both what is to be done, and how it
is to be done. There should be no conflict between the two kinds
of command. There will be none if the primary functions of the
army and navy forces are adhered to. When forces are joined for
a combined operation to accomplish a definite objective, maximum
results can be secured only by cooperation and coordination. The
Joint Army and Navy Board has laid down the guiding principles
to be followed by the Army and Navy to provide unity of com-
mand in joint operations in coast defense. Under ordinary circum-
stances, if the operation is primarily naval the supreme command
should be naval. If the operation is primarily military, the Army
should command. The same principle should apply to the lesser
commands in minor or local operations in which the objectives are
subordinate to the main objective.
In the United States both the Army and Navy have functions
in coast defense, but the control is not wholly in the hands of
either. In Europe the system differs from ours. The coast de-
fense of France is entirely under the Navy until the actual landing
of hostile forces takes place. In England it has been a naval
function heretofore, all under the control of the naval officer com-
manding the coast defense forces. Since the formation of the
Royal Air Force, where naval aviation and army aviation have
been consolidated into an independent organization, the exact
status of the Army, Navy and the Air Force with respect to coast


  p. 1665 (#591)                      #

1925]
1665
Aviation in Coast Defense
defense seems to be indefinite. In Germany coast defense was all
under the Navy.
Operations in coastal areas are primarily naval, but the com-
mander of naval coast defense forces should always keep the com-
mander of the army forces advised regarding the development of
any situation at sea in which the Army subsequently may be called
upon to take part, directly or indirectly.
Should the naval commander request the assistance of the army
forces to repel an attack he should advise the army commander as
to the situation. He should specify what forces are desired, when
and where they will be needed, and the objective. The forces
should be furnished if available, and should be directed to report
to the naval commander for operation under his direction in co-
operation with the naval forces. If an enemy force is greatly
superior to the naval foặce available for use against it, and the
· naval force is unable to cope with the situation, the naval com-
mander should so notify the army commander. The Army would
then have the paramount interest. The naval forces should be
turned over to the Army and the joint forces should operate under
the lirection of the army commander.
XIV. CONCLUSIONS
until airplanes, loaded with bombs, can Ay back and forth with
impunity across the Atlantic or Pacific Oceans, as they can now do
across the English Channel and other inland seas, the problem of
defense against hostile air raids will remain a much simpler
ogle for the United States than it is for European powers.
A strong navy, composed of all types of craft—submarine, air
and surface craft, balanced in numbers, and coordinated in action
to insure mutual support, provides the most effective means of re-
pelling overseas attacks and of protecting shipping on the seas.
Anavy that is strong enough to protect shipping on the high seas
certainly can, effectively control it along the home coast lines.
If we were to assign exclusively to the Army Air Service the
dity of protecting the coastal sea lanes within flying radius of the
shore bases, it would still be necessary for the Navy to protect the
sed lanes beyond the range of aircraft. There would have to be an
imaginary boundary line on the surface of the sea, on one side of
which the Army, and on the other side of which the Navy would


  p. 1666 (#592)                      #

1666
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
be responsible. The bordering area would probably develop into
a “no man's sea” over which neither service would claim responsi-
bility. Aircraft, unsupported by seacraft, could never perform
efficiently the work required of a naval coast defense force in time
of war, no matter how great their flying range. The natural line
of demarkation is the shore line, and the natural service for work
beyond this line is the Navy. Our Navy, with its aircraft, its sub-
marines and surface vessels of all types, and its complete intelli-
gence and communication system, is amalgamated into an efficient
and well balanced organization to do all work from shore line to
shore line. The Army Air Service is by nature incapable of doing
the Navy's work.
When submarines were first introduced in our Navy there was a
some discussion as to whether they should be placed under the
Army or under the Navy. Now aviation has become an important
and integral arm of the Army and of the Navy. It has supple u
mented other weapons of both services, but has not supplanted
any of them. It has not changed the relation between the Arms
and the Navy. The Navy has its duties in connection with coast
defense which are naval in character, and the Army has its to
characteristic duties.
To restrict the Navy in the choice of its weapons or in
facilities for operating them would deprive the Navy of the
play of its power to meet all of its responsibilities. To turno
coastal patrol, or the control of shipping in our coastal sea la..
now a responsibility of the Navy, to the Army Air Service WON
duplicate existing functions of the Navy, would confuse the
problem of coast defense, and would weaken army aviation
diverting it from other important missions.


  p. 1666 (#593)                      #



  p. 1666 (#594)                      #



  p. 1667 (#595)                      #

STAR IDENTIFICATION DIAGRAM
BY MIDSHIPMAN (now Ensign) L. H. BURKHEAD AND MIDSHIP-
MAN (now Ensign) W. H. BENSON, U. S. Navy!
AY a straightedge from the point on AB numbered (in black)
below the line AB, corresponding to the azimuth measured
from the elevated pole, to a point laid off on the outer
circle on the opposite side of the vertical line CD and above AB
an amount equal to the altitude measured in degrees.
Note where the straightedge intersects the black arc whose
number (in red) above the line AB corresponds to the azimuth
measured from the elevated pole.
Using the red circles as guides rotate the point thus found
through 90 - L degrees clockwise about center of chart.
Lay a straightedge from the point revolved to the point on AB
whose black number corresponds to the red number on the black
arc upon which the revolved point fell.
The number of degrees from AB to the intersection of the
straightedge with the outer circle on the same side of the vertical
line CD, upon which the revolved point fell, is the declination. It
is the same name as the latitude if it is above AB and different
name if below.
Lay a straightedge from C to the intersection of line AB with
the black arc upon which the revolved point fell. The amount in
hours and minutes from B to where the straightedge intersects the
outer circle is the hour angle.
EXAMPLE:
Latitude 24-00 N. h 25-00. Z 116-00 (from elevated pole E or
W) lay straightedge from (1) to (2) and obtain point (3).
Rotate (3) 90 - 24 equals 66 degrees clockwise to obtain (4). Lay
straightedge (4) to (5) and get (6) Declination 11-00S. Lay
straightedge C to (7) and get hour angle 3h. 44m. H.A. combined
with L.S.T. gives right ascension.
* See page 1723 Discussion by G. W. Littlehales.


  p. 1668 (#596)                      #

1668
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
APPROXIMATE ALTITUDE AND AZIMUTHS
Lay a straightedge from C to the point on the outer circle whose
distance below B in hours and minutes equals the hour angle.
Note black arc where the straightedge intersects AB.
Lay a straightedge from the point on AB whose black number
corresponds to the red number of the black arc found above to
a point on opposite side of line CD whose distance in degrees
above AB equals the declination, if the declination is the same
name as the latitude; below AB if different name.
Note the point where the straightedge intersects the black arc
found above. By use of the red circles revolve this point counter-
clockwise 90 - L degrees about the center of chart.
Lay a straightedge from the revolved point to a point on AB
whose black number corresponds to the red number of the black
arc upon which the revolved point fell.
The number of degrees from AB to the intersection of the
straightedge with the outer circle is the altitude.
The red number of the black arc upon which the revolved point
fell is the azimuth.
EXAMPLE:
Declination 11-00S. Latitude 24-00N. Hour Angle 3h 44m.
Lay a straightedge from C to the point (8) and get (7).
Lay a straightedge from (5) to (6) and get (4).
Rotate (4) 90 - 24 equals 66 degrees counter-clockwise and get
(3).
Lay a straightedge from (1) to (3) and get (2) equals 25-00
(altitude).
Red number corresponding to (3) equals azimuth equals 116
degrees.


  p. 1669 (#597)                      #

THE BRIDGE ACROSS THE ATLANTIC
CAPTAIN YATES STIRLING, JR., U. S. Navy
THE creation of a huge Naval Transport Force was one of
I the most unique naval achievements of the war. In retro- .
spect, it seems even to those who grew up in it, almost a
miracle of accomplishment. It began from nearly nothing and
ended with much over one hundred great transport ships within
the space of sixteen months.
The Army, prior to the World War, maintained a transport
service. These vessels carried troops between the United States
and our island possessions. They were small, slow in speed and
few in number; the officers and crew of the merchantmen type.
War Department authority on board was vested in an army
quartermaster, captain or lieutenant, to whom the master of the
vessel was responsible. The troops were, by army regulations,
under the direct command of the senior army officer of the troops
on board, who by virtue of his rank also commanded the ship
considered as a military force.
The first of our Army to go to France as an expeditionary
force consisted of men drawn from certain regular divisions, about
10,000 strong. The ships to carry this force were assembled by
the War Department, loaded and made ready to sail by June 14,
1917.
Rear Admiral Albert Gleaves, U. S. Navy, in command of the
cruiser force of the Atlantic fleet, was assigned the duty of escort-
ing this, the greatest single convoy of United States troops that had
up to that time put to sea. The convoy consisted of fourteen
merchant ships converted to army transports. These merchant
vessels were chartered from American mercantile companies.
They were armed by the Navy with guns and furnished naval
officers and armed guard crews to serve them. The escort of the
convoy included one armored cruiser, three first-class cruisers, two
converted yachts, one auxiliary cruiser, and twelve destroyers. A
navy collier and a naval transport formed part of the convoy. The


  p. 1670 (#598)                      #

1670
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
convoy was divided into four separate groups and each proceeded
by slightly different routes to the same port of debarkation-
St. Nazaire, France.
The experience gained in this expedition by Admiral Gleaves
made his appointment as the commander of the naval transport
force, in addition to his duties in command of the cruiser force,
a most logical and happy one.
One feature of the first convoy has been generally overlooked--
oiling destroyers at sea, common enough now, but unique then.
Just previous to our entry into the war, the commander of the
destroyer force (Admiral Gleaves, as it happened) had made
special efforts to develop this important phase of logistics. Lieu-
tenant, now Commander, A. L. Bristol, U. S. Navy, and the late
Lieutenant Commander F. M. Perkins, U. S. Navy, developed a
scheme which was so successful that 70,000 gallons of oil per hour
could be delivered by a tanker to a destroyer at sea on one side,
or twice this amount, if fueling on both sides. Under particularly
good conditions, three destroyers might be fueled at sea at the
same time. Before the first expedition sailed, the tanker Miami
was sent out to take a selected position in the Atlantic on the route
of the convoy and as the various groups passed, the destroyers
(mostly short-legged ones) filled up their tanks from this tanker
at sea. Otherwise, the destroyers in the convoy would have had
to be towed more than half way across the ocean, thus prolonging
the passage and increasing the danger of submarine attack.
The first convoy demonstrated the imperative necessity for the
Navy to take over the army transport service insofar as concerned
the manning and sailing of the ships; and the Army to a man
among those who had crossed the ocean enthusiastically approved
this solution. However, to man all vessels chartered by the Army
for troop ships without depleting the fighting ships of the fleet was
a most difficult undertaking. The Bureau of Navigation of the
Navy Department, under the direction of Admiral L. C. Palmer,
succeeded admirably in accomplishing this task.
The safe passage of our troops through the submarine-infested
zone about England and France was so very serious a considera-
tion that no question of personal preference or service jealousy
could stand against the common sense opinion that the responsi-
bility was one to be intrusted to men who had been trained to the


  p. 1671 (#599)                      #

1925]
1671
The Bridge Across the Atlantic
sea. The army transport system, as operated in time of peace,
was known to be fundamentally bad for war. To insure the
greatest immunity from attack and safety to the troops in case of
casualty to the ships, the factor most important was disciplined
crews for the vessels. This only could be assured by placing the
transports under naval control. The appropriation of money for
the purpose was administered by the Army. This was unfortunate
because it frequently gave rise to misunderstandings, but was of
minor consequence.
Army officials, especially at first, often failed to appreciate the
changed status of the transports, and looked upon them as army
chattels instead of naval ships of war. The admiral and his naval
captains with patience, courtesy and good humor endeavored to
correct this false impression. Many army men to the end con-
sidered a naval transport a mere carrier of live freight and
entirely overlooked the military side of the undertaking: that the
conduct of convoys across an ocean where an enemy might any-
where be met was a distinctly naval duty. Many naval transport
captains, in addition to commanding their individual vessels, also
commanded an entire convoy.of from six to over a dozen ships
carrying in the aggregate as many as 40,000 men.
In the ports of the United States at the outbreak of our war
were eighteen German merchantmen, admirably appropriate to
become troopships. The one hindrance was the complete disable-
ment of their machinery by the German crews upon order of their
government. This sabotage, the German High Command con-
sidered would require two years to repair, inasmuch as there were
no spare parts of machinery in the United States and no plans
of the disabled parts of machinery available in this country to
permit spares to be made.
These vessels had been seized by the United States Government
immediately upon our declaration of war, but too late to prevent
this carefully planned destruction of machinery. The vessels had
been turned over to the United States Shipping Board, and that
newly created power began at once to endeavor to solve the vital
question of putting the machinery in condition for service while
at the same time converting the vessels for the important purpose
of carrying our troops to France.


  p. 1672 (#600)                      #

1672
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
These eighteen ex-German vessels were under repairs in the
larger commercial ports of the country. Table I shows their
capabilities as troopships. Other ex-German ships were after-
wards converted to troopships but those shown in the table were
the pioneers of the naval transport service.
These eighteen ships could be counted upon to land in France
nearly 700,000 men in one year, provided no vessels were lost or
seriously damaged by enemy action. The Von Steuben and De
Kalb in addition to being fitted to carry troops, were supplied with
a formidable battery of 5-inch guns and were used also as escorting
vessels. All naval transports were armed with not less than four
6-inch or 5-inch guns.
To each of the transport ships was assigned a regular officer,
of the Navy of the rank of captain or commander, and the principal
officers for the ships were of the regular Navy. The importance
of transport duty was emphasized and the Navy Department made
every conceivable effort to provide the ships with the best personnel
available, even to robbing the older battleships of their experienced
officers and enlisted men.
It is not difficult to understand that the naval personnel received
a distinct mental shock upon viewing their new ships for the first
time. These vessels had been laid up since August, 1914, three
whole years, without turning a wheel. The engines were complete
wrecks and the shipyard workmen had not improved the dis-
ordered appearance of the ships in their two months' labor in tear-
ing out the insides throughout to fit the crude standard army
troopship layout, including wooden standee bunks for the troops
and the necessary sanitary arrangements and feeding facilities for
many thousands of men.
The naval officers, accustomed to the familiar if not direct
methods of the naval establishment, found a condition much
complicated. The ships were partially manned by the Shipping
Board. The guards to protect the material from further enemy
sabotage were supplied by the Army. The repairs and the work
of conversion was being done under the direction of the Shipping
Board and the Army jointly. The Army paid the bills. Thus the
Navy introduced a new factor in this agglomerate control. The
Army was interested mostly in obtaining the maximum troop
capacity commensurate with the necessary but minimum comfort


  p. 1673 (#601)                      #

1925)
1673
.
The Bridge Across the Atlantic
for the troops. The Navy became interested more particularly in
safety for the ships and for the troops in case of torpedoing.
In spite of the thoroughness of the German wreckers, the daring
adoption of the electric welding introduced by Captain Jessop,
U. S. Navy, reduced a two years' task to one of five months.
Admiral Gleaves early realized that his responsibility was to
get these necessary ships ready in a minimum of time. Tri-party
control was slow and not business like. The knot was cut, there-
fore, and the Navy took the step to control completely the progress
of work in placing all eighteen vessels in regular commission, as
men-of-war. The Shipping Board crew and army guard marched
ashore and the naval captain became supreme and his word law.
For months during the fitting-out process the ships were un-
inhabitable. Meanwhile, crews were collected for each. The
personnel boarded in the neighborhood of the shipyards, none too
pleasant an environment for the type of recruit that had rushed
to enlist, impressed with the idea that the Navy would be the
first to do battle with the enemy on the seas. Fortunately, the
season of the year was favorable and the morale of the crews
was not seriously impaired by the many discomforts, borne by all
with great good humor.
The officers and enlisted men forming the crews of these vessels,
by their loyalty and skill, in a great measure forced the hand of
the contractors to make haste the work of conversion in performing
themselves services outside of their regular duties where dockyard
help was incompetent or impossible to obtain, due to shortage of
men of skill and experience.
Admiral Gleaves on board his flagship in the North River
held weekly conferences with his captains. Upon the admiral's
shoulders rested a heavy burden, the task of almost, if not quite,
creating something from nothing. He bore it with great fortitude
and dignity. On one side he was importuned by the anxious
Army with the insistent question: "When will you have these
big ex-German ships ready for us to send troops?” This question
the admiral as frequently put to the eighteen captains who came
to the conference. Most of them shook their heads. They could
not see daylight ahead. The uncertain factor was the engine re-
pairs. Would electric welding make the broken castings as good
and as sound as before the Germans had broken them asunder?


  p. 1674 (#602)                      #

1674
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
That was a question no one could answer until the thing was ac-
complished and the engines tried out.
Meanwhile, there were many material things to occupy the
admiral and his staff. Among the most important were: the
feeding arrangement, including storerooms, cold storage, galleys,
(kitchens); sanitary arrangements—water closets, lavatories, and
berthing arrangement. Besides, the safety of the personnel had
to be carefully studied and means provided to insure each man a
fighting chance to get on deck from his bunk before the ship sank
if torpedoed. Then there were the questions of life preservers,
life rafts and boats, and the question of keeping all lights required
at night on the inside of the ship from showing outside. Further-
more, the naval transport service was a new experience for both
the Army and the Navy—one they must understand in order that
there would be no friction when the Army marched on board.
Admiral Gleaves worked up in his conferences standard methods
and then appointed a committee of his captains to draw up ad-
ministrative regulations for the new naval transport force. This
little pamphlet was printed and served as a guide in representing
the best epitomized thoughts of all upon the many new and per-
plexing questions. It underwent only minor changes subsequently.
Admiral Gleaves, his work outgrowing the small space provided
on board his flagship, moved first to a specially constructed build-
ing on the dock at Ninety-sixth Street, North River. The ground
was loaned for ninety-nine years by the city of New York at the
instance of the indefatigable R. A. C. Smith, Esq., former dock
commissioner. The Navy Department allowed the Admiral
$60,000 for the construction. Later, it became necessary to es-
tablish offices on shore and for this purpose the Steneck Building,
at Hoboken, was selected. Here he was in closer touch with the
army embarkation authorities at the Hoboken piers and his own
ships which loaded troops and cargo at that locality literally under
the windows of his offices. On the roof a signal station was es-
tablished which commanded a view of North River and the upper
bay.
There were some heart-breaking delays and breakdowns, even
after the ex-German vessels were finished, but, as a whole, the
work was done well if not cheaply, and lasted out.


  p. 1675 (#603)                      #

1925)
1675
The Bridge Across the Atlantic
While the ex-German ships were being fitted out, submarine
sinkings were mounting high and German propaganda in this
country was working at fever heat and haste to break down the
nation's morale in order that our troops might not be rushed to
save the Allies.
Much of this propaganda stuck. The transport personnel knew
they had been selected as martyrs. They might run the gauntlet
once, twice, or even three trips, but sooner or later they were sure
that there would be a day of reckoning, for it was inconceivable
to them that the German High Command would not eventually
concentrate every available submarine on the American troop con-
voys in order to cut off a vast reservoir of fighting men from the
battlefields of Europe. All hoped that if their ship was to be
torpedoed it would take place on the way back, empty of troops.
At the conferences as the weeks went by, the admiral became
more insistent that each captain give a date for the loading of
troops and cargo. It was hourly becoming more important to
know something definite, for the Army's plans for concentration
of troops at the ports of embarkation naturally depended upon the
Navy's readiness to sail the troopships.
During this interval, the army transports, mostly chartered and
manned with their original merchant crews, were sailing as fast
as they could be turned around. These ships had been placed
under Admiral Gleaves, and several naval officers, including a naval
captain or commander, had been assigned to each. These naval
officers had the responsibility for the safety of the ships when they
left port and until arrival in France, but were not actually in com-
mand of the ships. This arrangement was quite unsatisfactory
and Admiral Gleaves was straining every effort regularly to com-
mission with a naval complement every ship engaged in carrying
troops. The first sailing of an ex-German troopship was in the
latter part of September, 1917, but the great bulk of them were not
ready until after the first week in October. One convoy sailed from
New York about October 14, taking the Rainbow (Forty-second)
Division. It included the three big liners President Grant, Presi-
dent Lincoln, and the Covington. The latter two were sunk on
returning from their fifth trip, without troops. The other vessels
were the Tenadores, Passadores, Mallory, and DeKalb, with the
Seattle and two destroyers escorting.


  p. 1676 (#604)                      #

1676
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
TABLE I
Speed
American Name Knots
Est.
Troop
Cap.
Gross
Tonnage
German Name
Port
Fitted
Out
17
I
do
do
do
do
Vaterland........... Leviathan........
Amerika............ America.........
George Washington. ... George Washington.
President Lincoln..... President Lincoln*.
President Grani....... President Grant...
Kaiser Wilhelm II.... 4gamemnon......
Kronprinzessin Cecile Mount Vernon. ...
Cincinnati.......... Covington*
Rhein............... Susquehanna...
Neckar.
Antigone. .....
Grosser Kurfurst..... 1eolus........
Hamburg. .......... Powhatan....
Prinzess Irene........ Pocahontas.....
Frederich der Grosse...] Puron........
Koenig Wilhelm II.... Madawaska...
Barbarossa .......... Mercury.......
Kronprinz Wilhelm .. Von Steuben...
Prinz Eitel Friederich JDe Kalb.
10,000
5,000
5,000
5,000
5,000
4,500
4,500
4,000
3,000
3,000
3,000
3,000
2,800
2,800
2,500
2,500
2,000
1,000
54, 282 New York
22,622
25, 570
18,072
18,072
19,360
19,503
Boston
17,500 do
10,058 Norfolk
9,835 do
13, 102 New York
10,532
10,893
10,771 do
9,410
10,983
Phila.
8,797 do
Go
do
do
14,908
* Sunk by submarine.
Total Tonnage. ............304,270
Total Troops.............. 68,600
Tons per trooper. .....
The experiences with the Leviathan as a transport deserve
mention. In the first place, she was the biggest ship (54,000 tons
displacement) and attracted the most attention from both the Navy
and War Departments, and special efforts were made to get her
ready for sea. The repairs and conversion to a troopship were
completed in record time and she sailed on December 15, 1917,
for Liverpool, carrying 7,250 troops. On this trip, much to the
chagrin of both army and navy authorities, she remained at Liver-
pool fifty days. The reason for this delay was that the Leviathan
could dock and undock at Liverpool only on full-moon tides,
which, of course, was most unsatisfactory, and it therefore was
seen to be necessary to send her to Brest to disembark. Admiral


  p. 1677 (#605)                      #

1925]
1677
The Bridge Across the Atlantic
Gleaves insisted upon this change despite powerful protests from
all sides. In fact, her great size making it difficult to find a suita-
ble harbor for debarking troops, actually caused an effort to be
made to convert her into a hospital ship. Imagine the great loss
entailed if this suggestion had been accepted by Admiral Gleaves
and the Department! Her troop capacity was increased fifty per
cent after the first trip and in all she carried to Europe nearly one
tenth of all the troops transported across the Atlantic.
On one occasion, while returning from Europe, it was estimated
by the ship that fourteen days for overhaul and repair would be
necessary—yet in five days after her arrival at the Hoboken piers
she sailed on her return trip, repairs completed, carrying more than
10,000 troops of all arms. This was accomplished because of the
fact of an efficient and capable repair force available to the
admiral, who had unlimited authority in making repairs to his
ships at the port of New York. Every other consideration was
subordinated to the one of prompt turn-arounds. During these
five days in port the rain fell continuously and the Italian contract
laborers refused to coal the Leviathan in the rain. This in no way
disturbed Admiral Gleaves for he had the power to circumvent this
annoyance. On his own initiative the admiral commandeered the
entire coaling plant of this contractor, substituted sailors from
three armored cruisers that happened to be in port, and finished
the coaling of the Leviathan within schedule.
The embarking of the troops at Hoboken was a very drab
business. The ships were ready but neither the material nor the
personnel had been given a trial in feeding and housing such an
enormous number of men. In fact, in all of the ships many dock-
yard workmen were on board until the last gangway was put
ashore. The commissary department, led by the most experienced
naval paymasters, but padded out with many raw recruits, could
only imagine how it was to be done. The troops embarked in
silence, sad-eyed, heartsick, and in that state of nervous tension
described by some blunt writers as a polite term for fear. Fear,
not for a known danger, but for an unknown danger, on an ele-
ment, the sea, with which few of them were familiar. In fact,
many were to catch sight of the ocean for the first time. German
propaganda had insinuated the subconscious belief, not at all borne
out by conscious reasoning, that the ocean was as thickly strewn


  p. 1678 (#606)                      #

1678
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
with submarines and mines as Fifth Avenue with automobiles, or
Broadway with chorus girls. One could hear the troops talking
in low tones at night, fearing to raise their voices above a whisper
-actually men walked on tip-toes so that the submarines would
not hear.
The convoy sailed at night. No white lights of any kind were
lighted except in the engine and fire rooms, and below decks
where it was sure lights could not be seen from outside. In
other localities where it was necessary for some illumination, in
order to regulate troop traffic, pale blue lights were used which
gave a gruesome and none too cheerful aspect to the moist and
hot berthing spaces below decks, crowded to the ceiling with men.
The ships were untried. The personnel were in great part com-
posed of men who knew but little of life at sea. Even the old
timers were unfamiliar with the present conditions made neces-
sary by war. It was imperative immediately upon leaving port to
form the convoy. Big ships maneuvered at close distance to each
other and at almost full speed. The captains and the principal
officers were familiar with cruising in formation, but many of the
watch officers engaged in this difficult maneuver for the first time.
Captains remained on or near the navigating bridge at all times.
The safety of their ships lay heavy on their minds.
Once on the ocean and in the broad white light of day much
of the unreasoned fears passed. It was a long way to longitude
20 W, where the submarines began their piratical work and the
convoy would require eight days at least to arrive within the
danger zone.
There were many things to be done. The organization so care-
fully worked over by the executive officers for taking care of the
troops had to be frequently tested, amended, and again tried until
everything was as good as could be made. One important change
was made in the abandon ship method. An attempt had been made
in the organization to assign specified men to definitely located
rafts or boats. This was all thrown out and the troops under
their officers were formed instead on the upper open decks in
groups of seventy-five or one hundred and merely told when the
order to abandon ship was given to use the nearest jacob ladders
and life lines plentifully provided and just "step into the water,"
where life rafts would be plentifully provided. The temperature


  p. 1679 (#607)                      #

1925]
1679
The Bridge Across the Atlantic
of the water at that time was about 45° Fahrenheit; however, later,
off the coast of France, it was only about 50°.
The navy crews were made as large as berthing facilities allowed,
but there was so much work to be done that many additional
details were given to the Army; guards at boat drills, magazine
guards, and so forth. Of course, all troop spaces were policed and
guarded by the Army.
The commanding officer of troops on one of the big transports
was a brigadier general, commanding an artillery brigade. His one
idea seemed to be to help the Navy in their new work. He ap-
preciated the shortage of skilled men and said to the commanding
officer, “Captain, in our outfit, we have every known trade; we've
even got sailors if you need them.” That ship used soldiers freely
and the contact of Army and Navy working together made a last-
ing impression on both. The Army learned the Navy's job and
when they got to France they all said in appreciation: “Buddie,
I enjoyed the trip—I'd sure like to be going back with you to
God's Country, but I ain't going back till all these here submarines
have been tamed.”
The convoy sailed in line-abreast formation and, at night, with
no lights showing. When the moon was obscured the next ship
abreast could be seen as a deeper shadow in the gloom unless by
chance she edged in too close and then to the captain and officer of
the deck she loomed like a mountain too near for comfort. On the
other hand, if the end ships were kept too wide they were liable
to lose touch entirely during darkness and at daylight be miles
ahead or miles astern of the formation. In the beginning careful
routing of convoys was difficult, especially as the ocean was fairly
full of neutral shipping. Often a tramp steamer would find itself
heading through a convoy at night. Its actions would at once
reflect the coolness of the man on the tramp's bridge. It might be
expected to charge down one way, then change its mind and come
charging back another way. It went without saying that troop-
ships took no chances; they discounted brains on the bridge of the
tramp and gave him a wide berth. Then there was the danger of
running pell-mell into a big merchant convoy on a converging
course, especially nearing the coast of France. Then quick action
by the convoy commander of the fast troopships was required to
avoid a mishap.


  p. 1680 (#608)                      #

1680
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
When our destroyer building plan began to produce, these
vessels were despatched one or two at a time with the convoy.
They did not carry sufficient oil in their tanks to permit them to
steam at the convoy's speed of about fourteen knots all the way
across the ocean, so they were oiled in mid-ocean before entering
the danger zone. This was accomplished at first by stationing a
fuel ship at a selected point and trusting that the enemy sub-
marines would not discover the rendezvous. There was also the
fear that the weather might be too rough when the convoy arrived
to carry out refueling. However, luck, the sixth sense of all
Americans, stood by the Navy, and no mishaps on that score were
encountered. Later, after oil burning troopships existed in con-
voys, the destroyers were refueled from these ships most expedi-
tiously and with little loss of time.
Every man of the artillery brigade carried by the President
Lincoln will doubtlessly not soon forget, even after his hazardous
service at the front in France, the two hours that vessel was
stopped in the war zone, east of longitude 20°, to repair a disabled
air pump. The troops were all at their abandon ship stations with
life preservers adjusted. The gun crews were alert, and all look-
outs on their toes to discover a periscope. The rest of the convoy
swept on and quickly disappeared beyond the horizon. A lone
destroyer remained, circling about the huge vessel at high speed.
The two hours seemed an eternity to those in authority. Possibly
there was not a submarine within a hundred miles, yet one might
have been near enough to make an attack and, if so, 6,000-odd
men would have been set adrift five hundred miles from land,
mostly on life rafts to which they could only cling, and with the
water temperature 50°. There were six destroyers altogether
guarding the convoy. If all six performed rescue work they could
not accommodate with standing room all of the shipwrecked men
on this one big ship, and to perform this act of mercy, they must
desert the remainder of the convoy they were guarding and seek
port at full speed.
Just before this convoy arrived at St. Nazaire, the entrance to
the River Loire was mined by an enemy submarine, so the convoy
was conducted by a circuitous route, through tortuous channels and
between menacing rocks to a point inside of the mined area.


  p. 1681 (#609)                      #

1925]
1681
The Bridge Across the Atlantic
The little French pilot boarded the ship and received a cordial
welcome from the happy troops. The atmosphere of constraint
suddenly disappeared as the big convoy entered the sheltered
waters of Quiberon Bay and they were anxious to let off steam
that had been bottled up for two weeks. The regimental bands
played with a renewed vigor. Everybody was happy. The sub-
marines had been fooled.
At the entrance to the river a thick blanket of fog was en-
countered. To the westward was the open sea and only a short
distance away the mine field. The pilot said, shrugging expressive
shoulders, “I cannot see the buoy, therefore we must stop and
anchor.” Six loaded transports awaited the finding of that buoy.
Meanwhile, worse luck, the guarding destroyers considering their
duty completed had all turned northward and had disappeared in
the fog. They had other convoys to protect.
It is not a pleasant feeling to poke the big blunt bow of a
20,000-ton liner into a fog to find a tiny buoy surrounded on all
sides by treacherous rocks, shoals, and enemy mines, and amidst
the strongest known currents; but, on the other hand, there was the
necessity to anchor in that dangerous locality six ships carrying
20,000 men. One submarine might, by some evil streak of devil's
luck, sink all of them and on the threshhold of France.
"There's the buoy!” Everyone seemed to understand the im-
portance of keeping that buoy in sight. Night was fast falling but
once within the headlands of the river, the fog melted. Up the
river the convoy steamed and the biggest turned in toward the
locks in order to enter at the top of the tide. "How long are you?”
asked the pilot of the captain of the biggest ship, while that ship
was entering the lock. When told, the pilot looked serious for a
few minutes, apparently calculating. “It's all right,” he finally
announced; "there's ten feet to spare.” It was the largest ship
that had ever entered that locked harbor. The captain was confi-
dent all the time that the all-knowing ones at home had made sure
of the fit-yet it was none too much to spare.
Sunny France was in tears on the arrival of the convoy but the
populace were out in full force to welcome the troops. There
was no more soul-stirring sight than those six huge ships loaded
down with khaki-clad men, their white faces gleaming in the flood
of great cargo and illuminating lights on the docks, passing each


  p. 1682 (#610)                      #

1682
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
other close aboard as one after another was locked into the small
harbor and berthed alongside the piers. Bands were playing
“Over There," "It's a Long Long Trail," "Keep the Home Fires
Burning,” and so forth. Each ship, as it entered the harbor,
cheered those it passed, until there was a continuous roar of young
American voices mingled with stirring music and song. The rain,
an insidious French drizzle, could not dampen the soldiers' spirits.
They were "over there."
Later, when the nation got into its stride, the port of New York
was found too small as an embarkation center and a secondary
port, that of Newport News, Virginia, was used. Troopships
sailed simultaneously from the ports of New York and Newport
News, meeting at sea, and forming the convoy. The largest
convoy of American troopships sailed June 30, 1918; it con-
tained fifteen troopships and carried about 45,000 troops. This
convoy made good our President's promise to send by July 1,
1918, 1,000,000 men to join the Allies in their war for democracy.
The casualties and accidents during the carrying over of troops
were nearly negligible. There occurred, in addition to the sinking
of the navy transports President Lincoln and Covington and the
torpedoing of the Mount Vernon, which successfully reached port,
two collisions between troopships. In neither case were the ships
badly damaged, nor were there any casualties to personnel. In one
case the troopships having a collision continued to France with
only repairs effected by the ship’s mechanics. In the other case,
the damaged ships returned to the United States.
In the June 30, 1918, convoy, one ship caught fire. Her 1,600
troops were transferred at sea to another ship of the convoy, and
the burning vessel returned in safety to the United States. At
least two transports were attacked by submarines, one by gun fire
and one by torpedo. The one attacked by gun fire speeded up and
escaped. The one attacked with torpedo discovered the approach-
ing torpedo in time to maneuver, and avoided it by a very small
margin. A troopship was considered by standing orders issued by
the commander-in-chief of our fleet, in a class of vessels that
must not risk itself in an attack upon a submarine. The principle
underlying this order was that a submarine brought astern was a
submarine defeated, for as a rule all of the transports were faster
than the submarines, and to escape was a victory in such a one-


  p. 1683 (#611)                      #

1925]
1683
The Bridge Across the Atlantic
sided action. A transport could not stop in mid-ocean to rescue
survivors of torpedoed ships set adrift in boats and rafts until it
could be assured that a submarine was not submerged in the
vicinity, possibly using the wrecked ship's boats as a decoy.
The policy for troopships to avoid submarines was a most logical
one. The troopship was at a distinct handicap for it could not
locate the enemy, while the enemy with its periscope, an invisible
eye above the water, too small to detect, could always keep the
troopship in sight, and the transport, due to its great length, seven
hundred feet and upwards, and draft, could not hope to avoid a
torpedo fired suddenly from an unknown direction at a distance so
close that the sighting of the torpedo in the water preceded by only
a matter of fifty-odd seconds its explosion against the ship's iron
side.
The British Admiralty, followed tardily by our own Navy De-
partment, issued special rules in regard to the rescue of ship-
wrecked seamen. Only anti-submarine vessels of small tonnage,
light draft, and high speed were to undertake rescue work.
The shrinkage of ocean tonnage became so critical that means of
preserving ships were imperative, even though temporarily the
"traditions of the sea" were held in abeyance.
The personnel of the United States Navy was disappointed that
there was but little fighting on the sea but it can always point to the
accomplishment of its transport work with satisfaction. It was
a task well performed and to its unqualified success the nation owes
the fact of its large hard-hitting Army in France.


  p. 1684 (#612)                      #

THE NATION IN ARMS AND NATIONAL
DOCTRINE
BY MAJOR J. M. SCAMMELL, INF. 0. R. C.
F LATE there has been a great deal of attention directed in
the military and naval services toward publicity. The press
bureaus in the Navy Department and War Department
have been active, military and naval officers have written articles
for the press and addressed clubs and societies. These efforts are
commendable and necessary; they have produced favorable, but
not altogether satisfactory, results, as is indicated by the articles
on the need and methods of publicity which have recently appeared
in the military and naval magazines. To be sure, allowances must
be made for the fact that these are but beginnings; and they are,
moreover, beginnings by a class which is not especially trained
along these lines. Anatole France declares that the reason why
the military generally find difficulties in ex position lies in the
nature of their profession: they are not accustomed in their daily
life to use the arts of persuasion as the lawyers are, but instead,
like the centurion in the Bible, are men in authority having men
under them, and they say to this man, “Go," and he goeth; and to
that man, “Come," and he cometh; and to the other, "Do this,"
and he doeth it. It may be that there is much truth in this
criticism.
There is, perhaps, another reason. For a long time the military
have been a class separated from the bosom of the family politic.
Alfred de Vigny has sympathetically and beautifully compared
the military life of his time to that of a monastic order. It was,
probably, because of this almost complete divorce from the life
of the day that there arose the legend of the stupidity of the
military so charmingly described by Anatole France in Les
Opinions de M. Jerôme Coignard. In that delightful book the
Abbé Coignard tells the following anecdote of military life in the
late Seventeenth Century: The abbé one night accompanied a
bluff old captain who was taking his company out to instruct it
in how to find its way at night by the stars. In a belligerent tone


  p. 1685 (#613)                      #

1925)
1685
The Nation in Arms
he read the regulations of M. Louvois, the Minister of War, on
the subject. He then turned to his friend and in a hoarse whisper
demanded, "M. l'Abbé, where in hell is that damned Polar Star?"
The abbé obligingly pointed it out. "O-ho!" said the blunt old
soldier, “that bird roosts high. You can't see it without getting
a crick in your neck.” So in a loud and authoritative voice he
ordered the company to move back fifty paces in order the more
comfortably to see the North Star.
Now this old tradition of the stupidity of the military and its
twin, the excessive conservatism of that profession, while they
have less to feed on to-day, still thrive, as may be seen in the type
of critical war book which appeared in every country after the
Armistice, and of which the cleverest by far were those of Jean
de Pierrefeu. The success of these books may be said to be about
equally due to the degree to which the military have been out of
touch with civil life and the degree to which the civilians are
ignorant of military technique—to say nothing of the fact that
conservatism is less a vice in the military profession than a strict
necessity in view of the unalterable character of raw human nature
with which it deals, and the awful stakes with which it gambles.
That this is true we have the following evidence: that when
professional armies were at their height was a time when class
and professional distinctions of all kinds were excessive; and it
has been precisely at the time when civil scholarship has made the
most progress that the greatest military revolutions have taken
place. An illustration will show what is meant.
It is well known that from the time of Gustavus Adolphus and
Maurice of Nassau, who set the example, military art in Europe
was based upon the study of antiquity, but in Prussia both civil
and military scholarship were at a low ebb. There was in the early.
days of Frederick the Great a certain Colonel Guichard in the
service of the Dutch who wrote a learned work on the military
institutions of the Greeks. This book came to the notice of the
King of Prussia who summoned the colonel into his service and
gave him a regiment to command. The Prussian officers ridiculed
this “man of theory," and exalted the ideal of "the practical
soldier.” But, one day Colonel Guichard, being in command of a
large detachment, produced a brilliant and flexible maneuver the
like of which the King had never seen. The King was struck with


  p. 1686 (#614)                      #

1686
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
admiration and sent for the colonel. He questioned him at length
concerning the reasons for and the uses of that maneuver. Colonel
Guichard replied that he had adapted it from one used on a similar
occasion by a Roman general, Quintus Icilius. Frederick was de-
lighted, and as a mark of his satisfaction bestowed upon the colonel
the title of “Quintus Icilius" which he bore to the end of his days.
Now it was as a result of such studies that the Prussian Army
of Frederick became the model of all Europe, for the King of
Prussia developed a new system of tactics skilfully adapted from
those of the Greeks and Romans. Moreover, it is worthy of note
that immediately following the scientific discoveries of the
Eighteenth Century in France, the greatest military revolution took
place. The divisional system was developed in France and became
the basis of peace time army administration; a general staff and a
staff college were founded; the armament and tactics used through-
out the wars of the French Revolution and of Napoleon were
developed, and “The Nation in Arms" was proposed and actually
came into being during the French Revolution.
Because these facts are not widely known, and because it seems
worth while to demonstrate how close is the relationship between
the changes in society at large and the military profession, the
writer feels that it may be worth while to go into details. To
show how great was the growth of industry in France in the
Eighteenth Century, the following table is given:
Exports in millions of livres
1720
1735
1748
1755
1776 ...........
309
1778 ....... ..................... 354
This industrial development made possible the equipment and
maintenance of great masses of men in the field. Under Louis XV
6,000 leagues of roads were built. This enabled large armies to
move and be supplied in the field. The discoveries in physics and
mathematics led to studies in ballistics with the result that artillery-
men were able with reduced charges to gain in range and accuracy
of fire, which, in turn, led to the building of lighter and more
mobile guns able to maneuver with an army. The discoveries in
106
....


  p. 1687 (#615)                      #

1925)
1687
The Nation in Arms
geography led to better cartography and improved staff work.
Bourcet was the chief-of-staff to Marshal de Broglie, one of the
general officers who did the most to develop the divisional system.
Bourcet taught modern staff work to the officers who fought with
Washington in the American Revolution, and it was in the staff
college which he founded that Napoleon's chief-of-staff, Berthier,
was trained. These changes meant that the Nation in Arms, urged
years before by Marshal Saxe, was now a practical possibility; and
we find it strongly advocated by Guibert, who, later, during the era
of reform up to 1789, was secretary of the war council. In March
of that year he was succeeded by Mathieu Dumas, a trained staff
officer who had served in America, and like his predecessor, a deep
student of war.
In December, 1789, Dubois de Crancé, a scholar, a trained staff
officer and a legislator, read in the Assembly a minority report
directed against the anti-universal service report of M. de la Tour
du Pin, the minister of war. In his report de Crancé said, “I take
as an axiom that in France every citizen should be a soldier and
every a soldier a citizen.” A year later the reporter of the military
committee, M. Rabaut, said, “The French should . ... con-
sider themselves an army while they constitute a nation." But
it was not until the stirring events of 1793 made it a necessity that
the Nation in Arms actually came. Then Barrère made his famous
speech beginning, “The Republic is but one great besieged city;
France must be only one armed camp. Men of every age are
called by their native land to defend Liberty."
The Nation in Arms, therefore, was a compound of the industrial
revolution which provided the economic basis, the growth of
science which provided the economic tools, and the develop-
ment of democracy which provided the political and social back-
ground. It is to be noted that these influences were early reflected
in the military service, and that it was military scholarship which
first appreciated the significance of the new trend. In this instance
the conservatism was more on the civil than on the military side,
as it was in the United States from 1914 to 1917; and it was
political reaction, in the Congress of Vienna, that put back the
hands of the clock, diverted and distorted the normal growth of
the Nation in Arms and gave all of its greatest benefits, not to


  p. 1688 (#616)                      #

1688
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
democracy with which the system is and ought to be identified, but
to autocracy.
So much attention has been given here to the development of
the Nation in Arms for the reason that in a modified form it is
the system now adopted in the United States, where the necessary
consequences of such a system are not clearly understood. It is
known among the military, but less widely among the general
public, that the object of war is determined by policy; that policy,
in turn, is determined by statesmen, and that these statesmen are
strongly influenced by public opinion. But it has not been gener-
ally appreciated that for this reason public opinion may give to
strategy its initial direction and may color and even decisively
influence the outcome of a war. Above all, it is not sufficiently
taken into consideration to how considerable a degree this may
be true when we have to deal with half-trained militias and with
regular organizations expanded to a war footing by the addition
of untrained civilians.
Let us take up each aspect in turn. The extent to which public
opinion may influence the conduct of a war by determining the
conditions under which it may be fought is well illustrated by our
peace strategy in the Pacific. It was public opinion as influenced
by Admiral Mahan that was responsible for the building of the
Panama Canal and for the annexation of the Hawaiian Islands.
It was the absence of an enlightened public opinion that led us
first to neglect to create naval bases in the Philippines and at Guam,
and later to agree not to establish them there. To how great an
extent the former gave us a strategic advantage in the Pacific, and
to how great a degree the latter has handicapped us, it is hardly
worth while to emphasize. Mahan has well stated the relation of
peace strategy to that of war when he said that it bears to the
latter the same relation that strategy bears to tactics. Strategy
may influence decisively the conditions under which a battle may
be fought; for what else is strategy than an intelligent effort to
bring about conditions favorable to a successful battle? And what
else is peace strategy than a prudent endeavor to bring about con-
ditions favorable to the successful waging of a war.
The second point that we must consider in discussing the in-
fuence of the Nation in Arms system upon the conduct of a war
is the character of the armed forces, imperfectly trained or not


  p. 1689 (#617)                      #

1925]
1689
The Nation in Arms
at all. Modern conditions require that the nation furnish not only
the material supplies for a war, but also the personnel, including
to a very great extent the leaders. The expansion of the Army
through the National Guard and Organized Reserves will leave
only a thin veneer of trained soldiers. The Navy, to a lesser
degree, will find its trained personnel diluted, but still to a notable
and perhaps a decisive degree, especially when we consider the
rôle which aircraft plays and the extent to which it will probably
be expanded. The Navy may find an arm, upon which it relies for
its information and accurate long range gunnery, swamped with
new and untrained pilots. We do what little we can to train our
reserves; but in view of the reliance which we are forced to place
upon them, that training is neither sufficient nor intelligent, as I
hope to prove. Even the continuous period of from one to three
years of training given under the European system to conscripts
is not sufficient, as the testimony of von Moltke indicates where
he says:
Order, dexterity, even a certain amount of pride, are the characteristic
marks of armed forces forged in time of peace, but they have no consistency.
.... Let only one small crack appear and all falls into disorder,
just as a glass too suddenly cooled is broken. . ...
Of itself such an army is incapable of doing anything: it may accomplish
results only by reason of the initial direction which it receives. It should
be led with extreme prudence until, trained by its efforts and given confidence
hy its victories, its morale is at last made equal to the severe requirements
and the heavy task which it must accomplish.
Von Moltke sought a solution of the problem of insufficiently
trained troops in prudent leadership; General Bonnal sought it in
the strategic advance guard; the real solution appears to lie in a
more intelligent method of training. Fortunately, this may be
happily combined with a system which ought to give us at the
same time the advantages of a sounder initial direction. In a
word, what we need today is not so much a mere program of
publicity as a definite, thorough, and systematic effort to create
a sound national doctrine of war. That is to say, if we had a
national doctrine based upon the principles of war, not only could
we count upon a greater measure of popular support for our peace
strategy and our initial war strategy, which would confer upon our
half trained forces many of the advantages which they will require,


  p. 1690 (#618)                      #

1690
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
but our recruits would come to the services with a foundation
upon which a more thorough and rapid training could be based.
Upon what is von Moltke's criticism of short term service armies
based? Upon the lack of cohesion, which is to say discipline.
Therefore, the supreme end of peace-time training of militia and
reserves ought to be, not to instruct, but to create disciplinary
habits. “Discipline," says Ardant du Picq, “is a social institution
which ought to be based upon the dominant qualities and defects
of the nation.” “Esprit de corps,” he says, “is formed in war;
wars are becoming shorter and shorter ; esprit de corps must be
formed in advance." "It is always necessary to reform instruction,
to reduce it to the fundamental necessities and to rid it of the
useless frills which the peace-time soldiers add to it every year."
This is true. Let me show you what our soldiers are doing
today. Visit a unit of the R.O.T.C. at one university and you
will behold a unit whose mission is to train leaders for war giving
all the practice in leadership to the Regular Army instructors
and none at all to the cadet officers. The future leaders in war
are being trained not to lead, but to be led; not to accept responsi-
bility, but to shed it; not to win victories, but to lose them. Let
us visit another. Here we find cadets being solemnly taught to
roll packs and to pitch shelter tents. With only a few precious
hours in which to train officers to lead men in battle, supposedly
intelligent beings are wasting it instructing the candidates in how
to do things that in time of war can be taught sufficiently well for
all practical purposes in five minutes; teaching them things that
they must inevitably forget within a year at the most and which,
in all human probability, will be changed long before a war comes.
The General Staff soberly puts out a list of principles of war
which, presumably, are supposed to lead to success in battle; but
it trains its men according to other principles. In training it does
not select an intelligent objective, and uses the vicious “cordon
system" instead of concentration at the decisive point. The
Nation in Arms has come upon us and, instead of adapting our
training to its needs, we continue to use the tactical forms of
Frederick the Great and to train our militia and reserves for
certain disaster.
Unfortunately, this is not due to excessive conservatism, as may
appear, but rather to a too servile copying of the latest fads in civil


  p. 1691 (#619)                      #

1925]
1691
The Nation in Arms
education. But, military education is not the same as civil: it has
other purposes and should employ other means. Education is
composed of two distinct elements : instruction and training. Of
the two, training is by far the more important, and in a military
organization, supremely so. No amount of instruction will make
a soldier or a sailor any more than reading books on the subject
can make a football player. One may lecture until Doom's Day
and demonstrate throughout eternity and, unless he himself
practice and form correct habits, a student will never learn to play
a musical instrument. The only way to get the best results from
our present system is to inquire what are the essential habits of
thought and action that are required to make a man useful in
battle, and to concentrate upon these. The rest, if his habits are
formed and his mind trained, the recruit can pick up unconsciously
in a very short time.
And if this be true of the enlisted men it is supremely true of
the officer. A reserve officer ought not to be required to know the
technical details, but the principles so that he may be able rapidly
to master the details. An officer who knows his Ardant du Picq
and his Xenophon is more useful in war than one who knows his
Army or Navy Regulations. An officer must understand the
tools with which he works, and, “Man is the first instrument of
battle.” If recruits and reserve officers come to the service in
war indoctrinated in the point of view of that service, the basis of
solidarity, of discipline is already laid.
This could be done if we had a national doctrine of war based
upon our understanding of the principles of war. Then the same
principles that would guide the public in supporting the war would
also guide the soldiers throughout their training and guide their
leaders in action. The nation would make war as a unit. The
recruits would have an intellectual background which would enable
them to cooperate intelligently with their officers in their training,
and the basis for that mutual understanding and confidence which
is the supreme cementing force in a military organization. In
brief, there would be cohesion; there would be discipline.
An understanding of the same principles ought to permeate the
public. Such an understanding could, in part, be brought about
through the reserve and militia which are in continual contact with
the public and whose organizations form everywhere points suit-


  p. 1692 (#620)                      #

1692
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
able for the diffusion of these ideas. It ought to be brought about
by every means at our disposal, although it would be a wise thing
to study all possible means and to concentrate our efforts upon
those that promised the most substantial results. But, whatever
means are used, the important thing is that all should preach the
same gospel. At present many agencies are at work doing “pub-
licity” work on behalf of the national defense. There is no
desire to disparage the value of this work, but admittedly the
results are not satisfactory; and there is a growing opinion that
it ought to be coordinated. So far, so good. The best means of
coordinating effort lies in the use of a common doctrine. If the
principles of war were used as a basis there would be no necessity
for the already over-burdened officer to learn and practice some
new thing; but, on the contrary, he would gain a fresh understand-
ing of his profession by explaining its basic principles to the public,
and a bit of valuable practice in adapting those principles to new
situations. It would therefore become a part of his own training
for war as well as a part of the national preparation for war.
Just as an illustration, let us examine a couple of principles and
see how they could be adapted to national indoctrination. The
public certainly ought to understand its own responsibilities and
know enough about the principle of the objective not to demand
one that is improper. It ought to know, in a general way, what
are the legitimate objectives for land, sea, and air forces. Had
it any adequate conception of these things the country recently
might have been spared a situation which has done much to under-
mine the public confidence in its military servants. Again, the
principle of the offensive ought to be understood, at least to the
extent of knowing the vital distinction between an act of political
aggression and the strategical offensive. It would seem very
necessary that the public understand that the only possible perma-
nent results to be expected of a passive defense is an unnecessary
and costly prolonging of the war. “Security,” “Maneuver,"
“Economy of Force," and so forth, could be simply explained and
illustrated, as, for example, by their bearing upon current prob-
lems of policy such as a proposal to establish a base. If the
public is not correctly taught, it will be incorrectly taught.
Who can dispute the value of having a citizenry indoctrinated
in these principles? Who can doubt the utility of having every


  p. 1693 (#621)                      #

1925)
1693
The Nation in Arms
recruit who comes into the service already provided with a skeleton
idea system of military principles upon which his training may be
built? It would not be essential that these ideas be either profound
or clear at first; he knows but the words of the language through
which the ideas are to come and he has an intangible something
that we can best express, perhaps, as a receptive frame of mind
that will prevent many a misunderstanding and save many a lost
hour. He is not at first lost and bewildered by the strangeness and
the mystery of the new profession: he merely has graduated from
the high school to the university and takes up his studies where
he left off. If a personal reference may be allowed, the writer
has had the experience with recruits whom he found to be perfectly
intelligent men utterly bewildered when asked simple questions in
the orthodox military terms. They tried to remember what was
in the manual instead of using common sense. Their judgment
was paralyzed by military hocus pocus. Even the simplest prob-
lem of guard duty was a deep mystery until translated into terms
of night-watchmen and police; whereupon they returned most
sensible answers. Men training to go to the front after a year in
the Army were simply at a loss to answer the very simplest
question regarding advance-guard work. They seemed to think
that when they encountered a military problem the proper thing
was to park their brains and go into a trance hoping to receive
some sort of celestial inspiration. The writer would approach the
"point" and ask, “You are fired on from the woods over there;
what do you do?” He would then listen impatiently to incredible
imbecilities uttered in halting, groping words. There was only
one way to get an intelligent answer; the magic formula was,
“There is no Holy Mystery about military problems; they are
only questions of common sense. You are with a sheriff's posse;
now what do you do?” The correct answer came at once. This
experience led the writer to ask himself, “Do we not underestimate
the enlisted man's intelligence because we talk different lan-
guages?” As an experiment, on a divisional maneuver, the writer
then spread the map on the ground and asked the enlisted men to
solve the tactical problem of the divisional commander; and the
majority gave perfectly sound solutions. These are the ex-
periences which lead the writer to believe that it is not a difficult
thing to create a national doctrine of war based upon a few


  p. 1694 (#622)                      #

1694
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
elementary principles simply illustrated, and that such a step would
greatly simplify our problem of training citizens for emergency
military service.
Who shall create the doctrine, and how shall it be spread? It
need scarcely be said that the creation of a national doctrine, to
be sound from a military point of view, must be the creation largely
of the military; but civilian aid and advice ought not to be despised.
To be truly national, the civil point of view as well as that of the
Army and Navy ought to be represented. To be effectively
spread, the hearty cooperation of civilians will be required.
In propagating the doctrine every useful means ought to be
used. To determine which means are the most useful, the limita-
tions as well as the advantages of each should be weighed. For
example, the method of addressing clubs and societies is valuable
for immediate results, but only among certain classes. The press
offers a great field for wide distribution of ideas, but the results
are not permanent. Our war experience shows what results can
be quickly accomplished with the hearty cooperation of the press
and a definite program; but our experience since the war shows
clearly how ephemeral were the results. However, with a simple,
clear-cut program, a definite and permanent policy, this defect can,
in part, be remedied. For example, a consistent effort along the
following lines might accomplish much:
1) Appeal to the imagination, to get attention;
2) appeal to the sympathies, to maintain it;
3) appeal to the intelligence, to impress facts;
4) reiterate, reiterate, reiterate, to form habits of thought, to
get ideas into the very sub-conscious mind.
Then there are the schools, the very best means for getting
substantial and permanent results. Here fundamental principles
could be made a very part of the students' fund of ideas; here will
be reached the future makers of public opinion and the future
leaders in peace and in war. The students would then read their
history in the light of the principles which would be a part of their
mental equipment, and be prepared to study military and naval
history so as to get the meat out of it.
But, however we go about publicity, all ought to say the same
thing, whether army officers, navy officers or officers of the air


  p. 1695 (#623)                      #

1925]
1695
The Nation in Arms
service. Here, indeed, there is room for a national doctrine. Had
we had one we might have been spared the disgraceful and dis-
astrous spectacle of an army officer undermining the public con-
fidence in the leaders of a sister service and even of his own; and
the two services unable to present a united front with a common
and a coherent defense; and, we might add, of a public bewildered
and confused, where the understanding of a few elementary
principles would have spared that officer from feeling any neces-
sity for getting into a false position, spared the services embarrass-
ment, and spared the public from the temptation to suspect their
military leaders of incompetence.
To found a national doctrine and to supervise its diffusion a
permanent committee appears to be a necessity; and such a com-
mittee, of course, would have to be composed of army and navy
representatives and civilians. That, from time to time, or in an
auxiliary position, the personnel should include reserve officers and
officers of the militias, would seem to be desirable. That edu-
cators, representatives of the press and of the Congress should be
similarly appointed would seem to be even more desirable.
The first step of such a committee would be to consult the War
Department and the Navy Department and to draw up a tentative
doctrine representing their views or a compromise between them.
The next step would necessarily be to review the different means
available for its propagation—a sort of estimate of the situation-
and to draw up a definite and economical program. Thereafter
its duties would consist in supervising and coordinating the work
and in modifying the doctrine or the methods as experience may
require; and to do this effectively, to maintain a consistent and
permanent policy, the wise British institution of a permanent
secretariat would be most desirable.
In short, a mere disjointed effort to create "publicity” for the
national defense appears to be too narrow and insufficient a means
in this day of the Nation in Arms, and that the broader policy
of an effort to establish and disseminate a national doctrine of war
is a possible solution which promises rich rewards, is the firm
belief of the writer.


  p. 1696 (#624)                      #

POSSIBLE IMPROVEMENTS IN OUR
GUNNERY TRAINING.
By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER W. H. P. BLANDY, U. S. Navy
IN SPITE of the rapid advances which our Navy has made in
gunnery during the last two decades, and the high state of
proficiency which has now been attained, I believe that further
marked improvements are possible, at the present time, without
waiting for new developments in naval ordnance. In other words,
our system of gunnery training is susceptible of betterment.
The first and most important change which suggests itself to a
reviewer of our training methods is the elimination of “non-battle
practice” from the operating schedule of our active forces.
Champions of short range “battle” practice are requested not to
become disgusted yet, but to read further. That practice is use-
ful—in its proper place—but its proper place is in the elementary
grades of a separate gunnery school—the kindergarten of gunnery.
Why should the university student go back each year and recite
his A B C's all over again with a handful of infants who have
been allowed to join his classes? This method of training our
gunnery initiates is one of our most effective obstacles to advanced
battle efficiency.
Toward the end of each year we do learn a smattering of the
advanced phases of naval gunnery, and see our mistakes clearly
after we have made them. Then we go back to short range
“battle” practice, and forget all about real battle practices until
the end of the next year, when, with the inevitable changes of
personnel, and the many and varied activities of the year's opera-
tions, the same blunders in the advanced practices that were made
the year before are repeated. We never become thoroughly versed
in battle gunnery.
Furthermore, any plotting room officer will testify that there
are many members of the fire control party to whom short range
battle practice does not give even fundamental training. Some of


  p. 1697 (#625)                      #

1925)
1697
Possible Improvements in Gunnery
them must remain in utter idleness, because the fire control prob-
lem involved is so simple, or the range is so short, that the instru-
ments which they man are either not required or cannot be used.
Others are forced by the extreme artificiality of the problem to
adopt methods which are distinctly false and therefore harmful.
This result is perfectly natural. The practice was originally in-
tended to "qualify" gun pointers. It also develops fast loading
crews, and familiarizes new personnel with the functioning of the
battery and the loading devices, but it was never intended to train
the fire control party. In 1903, when the first practice similar to
our present S. R. B. P. was held, fire control as we know it today
simply did not exist.
As for training and qualifying gun pointer and director pointer
groups, and demonstrating to new personnel the operation of the
battery and loading devices, this work can be done more thoroughly
and rapidly in a gunnery school than on board fleet vessels, solely
because of concentration and specialization, and fast loading crews
can be developed by plenty of drill both at the gunnery school and
in the fleet, punctuated by various firing, elementary at the school
and advanced in the fleet. It makes very little difference to the
loading crew what the practice is, except that short range battle
practice is probably somewhat more hectic and feverish than a
battle would be.
To summarize, short range battle practice on vessels of the
fleet is:
I) Unnecessary for loading crews.
2) Not so good as a gunnery school for developing pointers
and trainers and for demonstrating general gunnery principles to
new men.
3) Distinctly harmful for the fire control party.
The substitute, then, is the U. S. Naval Gunnery School. This
institution has already been discussed by a number of officers, and
it is not the purpose of this article to propose any details for its
organization, equipment, or curriculum. I wish only to point out
that if all men of the seaman branch were given a rudimentary
course in gunnery at such a school before joining the fleet, the
active forces could devote their entire time to real battle training.
Furthermore, the elementary training received at the gunnery


  p. 1698 (#626)                      #

1698
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
school would be standardized, and since the officer and petty officer
instructors, through constant practice, would become expert in
their work, the instruction given would be uniformly excellent.
We should have "quantity production” of well trained men. It is
true that vessels would have to be assigned to the school, and that
these vessels, even though they operated with reduced comple-
ments, would take men from the fleet. The men in training would
also represent a personnel loss to the fleet. The Navy would
therefore need more men, or else we should have to content our-
selves with a smaller (and more efficient) operating force; but
the game is surely worth the candle.
It has been proposed by Commander Russell Willson, U. S.
Navy, in “Our System of Fleet Training,” PROCEEDINGS No. 266,
April, 1925, that we change our fleet training cycle from a one-
year to a two-year system. Such a change would appear highly
desirable, in view of the greater opportunities afforded for
strategic and tactical training. It would also improve gunnery by
providing more advanced practices in the complete cycle, and by
allowing more time for preparation and analysis. It would also
force us into greater permanence of official personnel. But, it
must be remembered that our large turnover of enlisted personnel
afloat is not caused so much by men merely changing stations, as
is largely the case with officers, as by men going out of the Nazy.
Changing from a one-year to a two-year cycle cannot, therefore,
alter to any great extent the large number of new men joining the
active vessels of the fleet each year, and, with an elementary
practice only once in two years, vessels would frequently go into
advanced practices with a large percentage of absolutely green
men. So, as little as I like S. R. B. P. in the fleet, on account of
the time it wastes for practically all officers above lieutenant grade,
and for nearly all men except the "boots,” I should certainly not
like to see it abolished, with no substitute, even for alternate years.
The establishment of an elementary gunnery school would
furnish the necessary substitute for our annual elementary
practices in the fleet, and would thus enable us to take full ad-
vantage of the two-year training cycle. As regards tactics alone, it
is easily seen that the substitution of advanced gunnery exercises in
the feet for the elementary practices will, in itself, emphasize the
effect of the two-year system by introducing more tactical train-


  p. 1699 (#627)                      #

1925]
1699
Possible Improvements in Gunnery
ing into the gunnery program. Compare, for instance, the tactical
training value of short range battle practice with that of any
practice wherein a division or squadron of ships is steaming in
formation and firing simultaneously, and, of course, it is practices
of the latter type which we must add to the program. We are
still prone to think in ships instead of squadrons. We are not
yet doing enough to encourage division and squadron battle effi-
ciency. A greater proportion of "group exercises” for ships which
will have to operate in groups in action will place us a little nearer
to our goal of readiness for battle.
The next suggestion for improving our gunnery training system
is that we make better use of the spirit of competition. This
appears at first to be an unwarranted criticism of a navy which
has probably used competition to greater advantage than has any
other, both in gunnery and in engineering. But, we have made
some mistakes, and we are still making them, in applying competi-
tion to gunnery. We give prizes to pointer groups and to turret
and gun crews in the elementary and more or less individual work
of short range battle practice; and then we give no prizes at all to
these units in the practices which most nearly represent an actual
engagement. Of course, the old story is that we can isolate the
performance of the individual only at short range. But do we
actually bother to do this? How many times has "the best little
gun pointer in the navy” gone down to defeat because of some
defect over which he had no control—a jammed plug, a broken
powder bag, a break in the firing circuit, a rammer out of com-
mission! And did he get qualified on the shots he did fire, which
were hits ? Not very often. And what about the world beating
loading crews, who load their guns three times "in nothing flat”—
only to have the pointer score three beautiful misses ? What do
they get? Nothing worth mentioning. No; we lump the work of
all the individuals in a turret or gun crew, in awarding prizes for
short range battle practice, because it encourages "teamwork.” In
other words, we “isolate the work of the individual,” and “de-
velop team work in the group," all in the same breath. Consistent ?
Not quite. The teamwork of the group is really all we can fairly
grade, and the entire ship is certainly a more important team than
a single gun or turret crew. Hence, if we cut out short range
battle practice, we should give the prize money to the high ships


  p. 1700 (#628)                      #

1700
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
in some advanced practice, or, for that matter, to the high ships
in the entire year's work. If we must retain short range battle
practice, then we should at least greatly reduce the turret and gun
prizes awarded therefor, and allot the majority of this money to
the more important practices. Thus we may begin to turn our
competitive system right side up. We can make matters still better
by awarding division trophies, and where appropriate (for
instance, for destroyers), squadron trophies, in addition to the
present individual ship trophies. Division and squadron spirit will
never be so strong as pride in the individual ship, but these
additional trophies, with corresponding distinguishing marks to be
displayed by all vessels of the unit winning them, will go far
toward fostering such spirit, and therefore toward increasing
group efficiency.
The second mistake in our methods of applying competition
to gunnery lies in our "graded merit” system, by which we com-
bine the scores made by all the ships of a class in all practices into
final scores and standing for the entire year's work. The present
system aims to accomplish this object in such a way that each
practice is given a "weight” proportional to its relative importance.
Such a principle is necessary, of course, but the system is sus-
ceptible of a change which will make it accomplish its intended
purpose more efficiently than it does now, and at the same time
will make for keener competition within units, especially in the
case of isolated forces.
Without going into great detail in describing the present system
for those who may not be familiar with it, it will suffice to say that
the "points" scored by a certain ship in a given practice are de-
pendent upon the best performance in that practice by any ship,
which performance is taken as the standard. Other ships are
graded by the ratio of excellence which their performances bear to
this standard. Since some ships are always delayed, this pro-
cedure results in no ship getting a score that means anything for
months after a practice. When it comes to combining merits for
different practices, to see how two vessels stand, just between
themselves, the job is hopeless, until next year, when the printed
book comes out. Of course, for standing in the entire Navy, the
answer cannot come in until the last shell goes out—and even then
we must wait for the last torpedo. But it's your own league that


  p. 1701 (#629)                      #

1925]
1701
Possible Improvements in Gunnery
counts the most. The ships you see every day are the ones you
want to beat, especially if it's toward the end of the year, and you
know your chance for the trophy is “shot.”
The remedy is to assign a definite standard score based on
previous years' average performances. Make it as much bigger
as you like, each year, but set it up for all ships to shoot at, and
give each vessel her points according to the ratio her score bears
to it. It is true that if some ship makes a freak score much higher
than the standard in à certain practice, she will get a number of
points much greater than the practice is supposed to be worth-
but so she does now, by forcing all other ships down so far in this
practice that the average vessel finds it of less importance in mak-
ing up her total multiple than some insignificant “Battle Biscuit B.”
In the meantime, under the new system--which probably was the
old system before "graded merits” were invented—two vessels
which are about even, before the last practice of the year, will
know that whichever one makes the higher score in that practice
will win for the year, so far as those two are concerned, regard-
less of what any other ships do. They will therefore work the
harder, just to beat the other fellow, and the skippers will not be
detached before the issue is settled.
The final suggestion for improving our gunnery training system
is that a careful survey be made of the size of our targets in all
practices. It is easy to use the same size of target year after year,
when constant improvement in a particular form of practice would
justify making the target a bit smaller, and it is also easy to use
for one type of vessel a target which has become standard for
another type; but it does not follow that the best results will be
obtained in this way. Generally speaking, a target should have the
same dimensions as the objective in battle. If the practice is ex-
tremely difficult, and especially if it is a new form entirely, then
we would be justified in starting with a larger target, cutting it
down gradually each year until its proper size is reached, but
under no circumstances should we use a target smaller than we
shall have in action, when it is possible to use a target of proper
size. For instance, a destroyer, supposedly firing her guns at
another destroyer which is presumably returning her fire, should
have an area not appreciably less than the vulnerable part of her
enemy would be when projected through the sharpest angle which


  p. 1702 (#630)                      #

1702
(Sept.
l'. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
would permit all of the enemy's guns to bear. Thus, if the enemy
destroyer had the same general characteristics as one of ours, this
area would be about twenty feet high by 140 feet long, which area
would include all of her guns, tubes and depth charges, lower
portion of stacks (where smoke pouring out would affect deck
personnel) and the exposed hull, at a "target angle” such that all
her guns could just bear. A target very much smaller than this,
iſ used in an important practice, will result in such ridiculously
low scores that the gunnery personnel will get the idea that “It
can't be done,” and in an effort to cover their humiliation, will
laugh it off, and not take it so seriously next year. The target
must always be large enough to insure a reasonable percentage of
hits being obtained by well trained personnel. Otherwise, the
gunnery officer's only chance is to emulate the negro soldier on the
transport, who rushed on deck when the submarine alarm sounded,
took one look at the gun's crew and another at the tiny periscope,
then fell on his knees and prayed, “Oh God, give them gunners
luck !”


  p. 1703 (#631)                      #

THE PANAMA CANAL’S BIGGEST SHIP
By CAPTAIN A. W. Hinds, U. S. Navy
A RECORD was made at the Panama Canal on July 23,
o 1924, both as to size of ship passing through the canal and
as to tolls paid on a single vessel. This record was made
at the passage of the British battle cruiser Hood, which is 860
feet 7 inches in length, has a beam of 105 feet 2/2 inches, and was
drawing 32 feet at the time of the transit.
Men-of-war, other than those of the United States, are charged
canal tolls at the rate of fifty cents per ton displacement, and as
the Hood displaced 44,799 tons she paid into the U. S. Treasury
$22,399.50—by far the largest sum ever paid for the transit of a
single vessel. Another record near that of the Hood was made on
the same day on transit of H.M.S. Repulse, which is 794 feet 27/2
inches long, 102 feet 8 inches beam, and paid a toll of $17,679.50.
The best previous records were made by the British battle
cruiser Renown, which transited the canal with the Prince of
Wales on board in 1920. The Renown is 795 feet long, but had
much less beam than the present battle cruisers, for the torpedo
and mine blisters have been installed since the Renown used the
canal. The Renown's tolls were $16,689,50, which were slightly
exceeded by the steamer America with tolls of $16,855.50.
The nearest ships in breadth of beam to the Hood and Repulse
have been the U. S. S. Mississippi and New Mexico, with beams
of 97 feet 472 inches.
The problem in seamanship with the Mississippi and New
Mexico, however, was a much simpler one than that of passing
the Hood through the locks. No damage would have occurred had
the American ships rubbed against the concrete side walls of the
lock as the armor plate projects enough to protect the tender hull
from side wall damage. The under water blisters on the Hood
project well beyond the armor plate so they would have taken up
against the side walls first in case the ship had got far from
the center of the locks, and with any way on the heavy ship ex-


  p. 1704 (#632)                      #


H. M. S. Hood in Pana-
ma Canal locks at Pedro
Miguel. The blisters (under water)
project so much outside of armor plate
that there was only 2 feet, 434 inches clear-
ance on each side between ship and walls. Note
the electric locomotives on walls used to keep ship
in middle of lock and to pull her in at slow speed.


  p. 1705 (#633)                      #

1925)
1705
Panama Canal's Biggest Ship
tensive damage might have been done. As the locks are 1,000 feet
long and 110 feet wide there was to spare when the Hood was in
a lock, 70 feet clearance at each end between the ship and the lock
gates and only 2 feet 434 inches clearance at the sides.
The problem of locking through the Hood was a ticklish one for
canal authorities for it was known that the blisters are not strong
enough to resist any great amount of side pressure against the
lock walls and it was further realized that damage to these power-
ful warships of a friendly nation would cause unfavorable com-
ment and give the canal a bad reputation. It was, therefore,
decided in making the transit plans for the Hood to use the old
maxim “Better go slow than be sorry."
There is a center wall, between the twin locks, that projects
about a thousand feet beyond the lock proper. So the locking plan
involved, first, approaching this center wall very slowly; then,
when alongside the wall with practically no way on, the locomotive
wires were passed aboard and the ship proceeded into the lock at
a snail's speed, guided and kept in the exact center of the lock by
four electric locomotives on each of the side walls.
On account of the top hamper the pilot could see very little
astern, so the ship had platforms built along the upper deck which
projected beyond the armor plate the same amount as the blisters.
Officers manned these platforms and kept the pilot informed as to
how far the outside of the blister was from the side wall and
whether the clearance was increasing or decreasing.
Aside from the locking problem, there was a little nervousness
about how these big ships would handle in Gaillard Cut where the
canal width is only 300 feet and which has eight turns varying
in magnitude from seven to thirty degrees. Some ships act very
badly in the cut, especially when they are of heavy draft. They
will be going along very nicely when suddenly, and apparently
without reason, they take a sheer toward the bank and it takes
all the rudder and all the engine power to break the sheer and
sometimes even an anchor has to be dropped and the chain snubbed
to break the swing toward the bank. The Hood is so heavy that
there was no thought of trying to check her with the anchor chain.
but she had an advantage over the ordinary deeply laden freighter
in ample power of engines. As a matter of precaution a tug was
placed ahead of each battle cruiser on a short tow line to assist in


  p. 1706 (#634)                      #

1706
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
swinging the ship if it became necessary. It would have given
more turning power, of course, to take the tug on the bow but the
forecastle flare was too great for the tug to work at the bow. Both
ships passed through the canal without any trouble whatever.
The steering tugs did not have to be used at all in the narrow cut.
Incidentally, the least depth the ship had to steer in during the
passage of Gaillard Cut was thirty-seven feet. This was due to
the fact that all of the material of last October's slide has not yet
been removed. The whole cut is being cleaned up—material from
slides and silt dredged out; when this is completed the draft in the
cut at the end of the rainy season, when the lake is high, will be
forty-seven feet. When the lake is low, at the end of the dry
season, the least depth will be forty feet. Those who have served
on battleships will appreciate how much better the Hood would
have maneuvered with fourteen feet of water unedr the keel (as
she would have had with slide material all dredged out) compared
to the five feet she had on the day she transited. Nevertheless,
these big ships handled wonderfully well and the canal organiza-
tion was very proud of the message of congratulation from the
British vice admiral.


  p. 1706 (#635)                      #



  p. 1706 (#636)                      #



  p. 1707 (#637)                      #

GRAPHICAL AIDS TO NAVIGATION
By LIEUTENANT W. A. Mason, U. S. Navy
\HE value of graphical aids to the navigator are obvious,
affording, as they do, an easy method of obtaining necessary
data in minimum time and without troublesome interpolation.
In Fig. 1 is shown a graphical chart of the corrections to the
altitude of Polaris for the year 1925. This chart was constructed
from data given in Table 1, Nautical Almanac.
The outer circle is graduated into divisions of from o to 24 hours
Local Sidereal Time, each graduation corresponding to four
minutes of time. Visual interpolation to one minute can easily
be made.
Fifty-six concentric circles are drawn, each representing a
correction of one minute of arc to the altitude of Polaris. Visual
interpolation to the fractional part of a minute can easily be made.
To use this chart the altitude of Polaris is observed and time
noted. Watch time is converted into L.S.T., which is then located
on circumference of outer circle. A straightedge laid from this
point to center will intersect one of the two correction circles. At
the point of intersection will be found the correction to the altitude
of Polaris, the value of same being given by the number of the
concentric circle which is nearest this intersection. It will be
noted that corrections taken from one correction circle are additive
and those from the other correction circle are subtractive.
The author has constructed a similar chart for corrections to
the altitude of the moon, from the data given in Table 49 of
Bowditch.
It has been found that the use of such charts permits more rapid
and accurate work. They are of particular value to those to whom
interpolation is irksome. The use of this chart would obviate the
possibility of error due to typographical error in Nautical Almanac
for 1925 for Table 1, L.S.T. 3h. iom.


  p. 1708 (#638)                      #


noo:v 180°
160°
LONGITUDE EAST
1909 120 100 80 60
40%
LONGITUDE WEST
40 60 80 100
120
140
160
180' NOON
NA
L.C.T. P.M.
C.T. SAME DATE
6.C.T. NEXT DATE
L.C.T. P.M.
122
2
/
10
23
MIDNIGHT
T. YAMEOATE
B.C.T PREVIOUS DATE
UZ NEXT DATE
.C.T SAME DATE
JMIDNIGHT
G.C.T. PREVIOUS DATE
R.C.T. SAME DATE
A.M.
VN
L.C.T.
L.C.T AM
NOON
NOON
poo
100
110
120
100
80
60
100
200 100
60
80
100 120
1900 160
200
Fig. 2


  p. 1709 (#639)                      #

1925)
1709
Graphical Aids to Navigation
In Fig. 2 is shown a graphical method of determining the proper
date at Greenwich for those who have trouble with this simple but
important factor.
A similar chart was previously published in the PROCEEDINGS,
but as so constructed is of no value subsequent to January 1,
1925, due to change from G.M.T. to G.C.T. at that time.
To use this chart, enter at the longitude line (east or west)
corresponding to your longitude. Follow this line until it inter-
sects the time line (horizontal) corresponding to your watch time
A.M., or P.M. The nearest diagonal line above this intersection will
be the G.C.T. Should this intersection take place in upper right
triangle the Greenwich date is of the next day. Should the inter-
section take place in the lower left triangle, the Greenwich date is
of the previous day. Intersection that takes place in any other
section of chart will give Greenwich date as same day.


  p. 1710 (#640)                      #

A HOME-MADE PLANISPHERE
By CAPTAIN ALBERT N. Wood, U. S. Navy, RETIRED
ITIS deplorable that at the present day the study of descriptive
I astronomy seems almost entirely neglected.
The writer has investigated the subject as far as his re-
stricted opportunities have allowed. Among those interviewed
were a number of college graduates, a few naval officers, rather
recent graduates of Annapolis, and a very much greater number of
other intelligent people, not of collegiate education. The results in
all cases were similar. A few of the college graduates had studied
astronomy, usually an elective course, and one or two of them con-
fessed to having a slight bowing acquaintance with a few of the
stars and constellations, knowing them when they saw them. Of
the naval officers interviewed, it happened that all of them frankly
and regretfully admitted that their personal intimacy with the stars
left a great deal to be desired, though, of course, all were familiar
with navigation; all of them seemed glad to have their attention
called to their deficiency, which admits of speedy rectification. As
to the third class, their astronomical knowledge, beyond knowing
the position of the North Star and how to find it, was practically
nil.
That this ignorance is not confined to our own people, the
following quotation from Camille Flammarion's Astronomy for
Aniateurs will show :
Ask ourselves how many there are, even among thinking human beings,
who ever raise their eyes to the starry heavens? How many men and
women of our acquaintance are there who sincerely and with intelligent
curiosity, interest themselves in the shining specks, and inaccessible lumi-
naries, and are really desirious of a better acquaintance with them? Their
number is small, indeed.
Seek, talk, ask in the intercourse of daily life. You will find that the
number of those inquiring after truth is so limited that no one desires to
speak of it, so disgraceful is it to the so-called intelligence of our race.
And yet the great book of the heavens is open to all eyes.
Astronomy is the science par excellence. It is the most ancient and
beautiful of all; it dates back to the indeterminate times of highest antiquity.


  p. 1711 (#641)                      #

1925)
1711
A Home-made Planisphere
Its mission is not only to make us acquainted with the innumerable orbs
by which our nights are illuminated, but it is, moreover, thanks to it that
we know where and what we are. Without it we should live as the blind,
in eternal ignorance of the very conditions of our terrestrial existence.
Without it we should still be penetrated with the naive error which reduced
the entire universe to our minute globule, making our humanity the goal
of the Creation, and we should have no exact notion of the immense reality.
Today, thanks to the intelligent labor of so many centuries, thanks also
to the immortal genius of the men of science-and I mean women toom
who have devoted their lives to searching after truth, men such as Coper-
nicus, Galileo, Kepler, Newton, Caroline Herschel, Hypatia, of Alexandria,
Madame Hortense Lepaute, Marie Agnesi, Maria Mitchel, of America, and
many others but little known, the veil of ignorance has been rent, and the
marvels of creation are perceptible in their splendid truth to the dazzled eyes
of the thinker.
The study of astronomy is not, as so many suppose, the sacrifice of one's
self to the cerebral torture that obliterates all the beauty, the fascination,
and the grandeur of the pageant of nature. It is not necessary to plunge
oneself into mathematics. Simply open your eyes to see where you are,
so that you may not stray from the path of truth, which is also the path
of happiness. Once you are well entered upon it, no persuasion will be
necessary to make you persevere. And you will have the profound satis-
faction of knowing that you are thinking correctly, and that it is infinitely
better to be educated than to be ignorant. The reality is far beyond all
dreams, beyond the most fantastic imagination.
The application of these remarks seems to be that there is a
defect in the curricula of our high schools and colleges that should
receive the serious attention of our educators.
Restricting the application to the Navy, the writer assumes that
conditions are much the same as when he graduated. The young
officers leaving the Academy have received a slight course in
general astronomy and an intensive one in navigation, while little
or no personal introduction to the stars that must have become-
with constantly increasing sea speeds—more and more important
factors in navigating. Anything which helps to remedy this
assumed defect deserves attention.
There are less than fifty-nine of the heavenly bodies that are at
all likely to be used by the navigator. It is not too much to expect
that every line officer will render himself familiar with the person-
alities of these bodies—and they all have them—in the interests of
quick and efficient navigation. This is as easily accomplished as
getting acquainted with the personal characteristics of the same


  p. 1712 (#642)                      #

1712
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
number of men; more so, perhaps, as the stars are always found
with the same associates.
Possibly some readers of this article may be unfamiliar with the
planisphere, which was certainly in use in this country during the
first half of the last century as an aid in teaching astronomy, along
with a star atlas that pictured the constellations as the skeletons
of mythical or fanciful creatures or figures from which they had
been named by early astronomers. These aids were in vogue at
young ladies' finishing schools. One of these atlases, now in the
possession of the writer, was copyrighted in 1835.
There seems to have been in those days a much wider popular
interest in the stars than obtains at present, which, however, is
not claiming very much. Sixty years ago astronomy was studied
in many high schools and colleges as a regular course. Today it is
almost unknown in high schools and has generally become elective
in colleges and universities.
The word planisphere is thus defined by the Century Dictionary:
1. A projection of the sphere; especially a polar projection of the
celestial sphere.
2. An apparatus consisting of a polar projection of the heavens, with
a card over it turning about the pole and so cut out as to show the
part of the heavens visible at a given latitude at a given sidereal
time.
The planisphere was invented by Hipparchus, who lived about
160-125 B.C. He was evidently a genius of the first rank: “He
catalogued the stars, invented the planisphere and made a number
of the most important discoveries, including the eccentricity of the
solar orbit, some of the inequalities of the moon's motion, the pre-
cession of the equinoxes, and so forth.” The writer has found
no detailed description of Hipparchus' invention. He has in his
possession an arrangement called “Whitaker's Planisphere, show-
ing the principal stars visible for every hour in the year from
Lat. 40° N.” The planisphere in use during the earlier half of the
last century is said to have been very similar in design to
Whitaker's. This is quite an ornate affair in cardboard and
leather, with gilt lettering; it is made abroad and distributed by
"Thomas Whitaker, 2 and 3 Bible House, New York." No pro-
vision is made for plotting the changing positions of the sun, moon,
and planets. Another form of commercial planisphere, called a
star and planet finder, is a patented article of American manu-


  p. 1713 (#643)                      #

1925)
1713
A Home-made Planisphere
facture, generally similar to Whitaker's though somewhat larger,
and having a complicated arrangement for plotting the places of
the members of the solar system on it for a number of years ahead.
Both of these instruments come under the second definition of
planisphere. Neither is well adapted to the uses of a navigator,
both being designed for a latitude of forty degrees, both being too
small a scale, with the cut out window showing a celestial horizon
that is an ellipse. They are both rather expensive. Both com-
mercial planispheres are undoubtedly useful in the study of the
stars and in the localities for which they are designed. The cost
of the Home-made Planisphere, about to be described, is trifling,
and it has several other marked advantages, such as much larger
scale, mathematical correctness of design, and wider adaptability.
The description is more detailed than would be necessary for
navigators alone, as it is hoped to interest others in the use of this
easily constructed apparatus. The sanguine writer has visions of
its being made a fad by retired naval officers and others who find
golf too violent, cross-word puzzles a bore, and who love
the outdoors. In fact, it is conceivable that our Hydrographic
Office might design and print the "riding card” for the planisphere
(definition 1) that it already has on the market. In this connection
its value for popularizing the Navy might be considerable.
The essential parts of the Home-made Planisphere are “U. S.
Hydrographic Office Chart No. 2100, Constellations of the
Northern Hemisphere," with a "riding card” applied to it, and a
copy of the American Nautical Almanac for the current year.
The chart and almanac are for sale at all stores dealing in nautical
instruments; as the stock on hand at the dealers is sometimes
exhausted, one can always get the chart by sending directly to the
Hydrographer, Navy Department, Washington, D.C., and enclos-
ing a postal order for twenty cents, the price of the chart. The
American Nautical Almanac bears this legend on its face: “Pub-
lished by the Nautical Almanac Office, U. S. Naval Observatory,
under the authority of the Secretary of the Navy. Sold by the
Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Wash-
ington, D.C. Price fifteen cents.” A postal order to the Super-
intendent of Documents for fifteen cents will insure the delivery
of the Almanac with great promptness.
The chart is a polar projection of the northern hemisphere of
the celestial sphere, showing the principal constellations, with all


  p. 1714 (#644)                      #

1714
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
of the stars of the first and second magnitudes, and many others
down to and including the sixth magnitude; this is the lowest
magnitude for stars visible to unaided vision. The projection
proper is included in a circle of sixteen inches diameter, which
affords a very convenient scale for the chart; there is added to its
circumference, a circular zone two and two thirds inches wide, on
which are shown the constellations and stars from the equator to the
thirtieth degree of south declination. This zone is necessarily a
drawing on a different scale from the chart, and this should be kept
in mind. There is one first magnitude star,* that is useful to the
navigator, that escapes being plotted on the chart by being just
south of the thirtieth degree declination limit. It can be plotted
from its coordinates in the Nautical Almanac. Directions for use
of the chart are printed on its margin, as are the symbols for the
various members of the solar system, and the conventional method
of denoting the magnitudes of the various stars mapped. All stars
are named in the order of their brilliancy in their own constella-
tions by the letters of the Greek alphabet, and are so marked on
the chart; it would have been an additional convenience, perhaps,
if the Greek alphabet, in whole or in part, had been printed on the
margin with the names of letters in English, especially so as the
Nautical Almanac omits to give this educational feature. The
Greek alphabet is Greek to many intelligent people.
The "riding card” needed to bring Chart 2100 under the second
definition of planisphere, is made of cardboard or other suitable
material. A circle of ninety degrees radius, scale of the chart,
is drawn on the cardboard sheet, marking the center. Graduate
the circumference to convenient units. Draw diameters at, say,
every fifteen degrees, extending the diameters slightly beyond the
circumference of the circle, and carefully perforate the card at the
extremities of the diameters. Cut out the circle and reeve strong
coarse thread through the opposite holes of each diameter, secur-
ing the ends of the threads with each diameter taut across. Stiffen
the central crossing of the threads with a drop of mucilage, and
before it is quite dry perforate the exact center. Cut the outside
of the cardboard at a suitable width to give stiffness in handling.
Mark the graduations of the circle for azimuths, having denoted
the meridian diameter by a thread of a different color from the
others. Numerous modifications will suggest themselves.
* Fomalhaut, Alpha Piscis Australis.


  p. 1715 (#645)                      #

1925]
1715
A Home-made Planisphere
To use the apparatus, mount the chart on a light drawing board
of suitable size, find the zenith of the observer at a desired time,
as directed on the chart, and with a thumb tack through the cross-
center of the "riding card,” secure it at the zenith. Turn it till
the colored thread cuts the pole. The circle then represents,
approximately, the celestial horizon, of the observer at the given
time; the cross threads are the vertical circles, and all the visible
stars will be seen charted very much as they will appear in the
heavens. From time to time the zenith may be shifted to the east-
ward, and to the north or south, by dead reckoning, as needed.
The altitude and azimuth can be approximately obtained for any
visible star, almost by inspection. The rising of bright stars can
also be anticipated and provided for. Best of all, there need be no
possible mistake in the star observed. With this crude apparatus
and a little attentive study, perhaps with a very little help at first
by a more instructed amateur astronomer, it is within the capacity
of an eighth grade, public school boy to learn how to find the
answer, himself, to the question "What is the name of any ob-
served star?" or "Where is such and such a star, now?" In
addition to this, this intelligent school boy* has become a zealous
amateur astronomer, and an educational center. It's really worth
while—anybody's while.
There are two excellent books, published by Harper Brothers,
that give their readers a charming view of descriptive astronomy,
both by the same author, Martha Evans Martin ; they should form
a part of every naval vessel's library; perhaps they do. For the
more advanced students of astronomy there is A Popular History
of Astronomy during the Nineteenth Century, by Agnes M. Clerke,
Fourth Edition, Revised and Corrected. London, Adam and
Charles Black, 1902. This is a recognized, standard work.
So far as the writer knows, this method of actually showing
the zenith of the observer, the celestial horizon as a great circle,
centered at the zenith, and the various vertical circles, is original.
He hopes it may prove useful in high speed navigation. He has
already proven to his own satisfaction its utility in clearing up the
somewhat puzzling motions, apparent and real, of the orbs of
light that form the “Pageant of Nature.”
* An actual boy, named John Clark.


  p. 1716 (#646)                      #

A MOORING BOARD PROBLEM
By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER T. L. Gatch, U. S. Navy
A SSUME that in a certain form of target practice the rules
A require that fire be opened with the target bearing 70
degrees to the right of the base course at a range of 16,000
yards; that the speed of the target is to be not less than 6 nor more
than 12 knots; that the speed of the firing ship is to be 20 knots,
and that the course of the target is to be not more than 30 degrees
from the base course. Assume that for your firing the base course
prescribed is 270 degrees.
You have talked things over with the gunnery officer and have
promised him to be steady on the base course as long before
opening fire as practicable. You figure this out mentally and
estimate that if you steady on the base course 4,000 yards before
you get to the firing point it is bound to give him something over
five minutes, which ought to satisfy any gunnery officer. You
have impressed Plot with the necessity of getting the target's
course and speed up to you as soon as they can.
On the mooring board you have laid down point A, line O-A
representing your firing course and speed, and point B, the point
where you open fire. You start the approach and by the time you
have closed to 20,000 yards, say point C, Plot has given you the
target's course as 250 and speed as 10. You lay this down, line
O-D. The line A-D represents your motion relative to the target,
and, obviously, to point B. Draw a line parallel to A-D back
through point B. If from any place on this line you steady on your
firing course you will intersect point B. The geometrical proof
of this is simple: Point B moves along a line parallel to (-D,
B-M; the firing ship moves along a line parallel to 0-A, E-M;
triangle EMB is similar to triangle OAD for the three sides are
respectively parallel to each other; therefore BM must be pro-
* Author's note. Some of the features of this problem I have never seen
published, and doubt if they are known by many of the younger officers
of the service. My acknowledgments are made to Rear Admiral L. M.
Nulton and Captain R. C. Moody, U. S. Navy.


  p. 1717 (#647)                      #

KUL
No. 2665 a

TO
260
yo
TAILU
250
TUTTI
320
310
20
hukumudu
350
P
YIL
LUXULLINDUL
22
00
061
OU
VTTTII
180
LIL


  p. 1718 (#648)                      #

1718
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
portional to OD, the speed of the target, and EM to AO, the
speed of the firing ship. You have already determined to reach
a point on the line B-E 4,000 yards from B. Lay this down,
point E. Your course from C to E is 241 degrees. When you
reach point E you change course to 270 and reach the firing point.
Suppose as you plot over, and when you have reached point X,
the captain asks you how long it will be until open fire. Your
present course and speed are represented by O-F; the target's
by O-D. The relative rate of change between you and the target
is the distance FD on the speed scale, and, in this problem, is
10.6 knots. The speed reduced to yards per minute is 353. (The
rule is, multiply speed in knots by 100 and divide by 3. A knot
is 2,000 yards in 60 minutes.) From X to E on the distance scale
is 7,100 yards. Therefore, in 7,100 divided by 353 equals 20
minutes, about, you will be at point E. At point E you change
course to that represented by O-A. The distance AD on the speed
scale is 11 knots, which is 367 yards per minute. From E to B is
4,000 yards. 4,000 divided by 367 is i minutes, about. Your
answer to the captain's question is 31 minutes. If you are wise
you will answer, “About thirty minutes, captain."


  p. 1718 (#649)                      #

RETARDATION OF SHIPS' SPEED
DUE TO TURNING
By ENSIGN W. K. MENDENHALL, JR., U. S. Navy
IT IS common knowledge that when the rudder of a ship is
I put over the ship heels, turns along a curved line and slows.
The advance and transfer of all naval vessels with various
amounts of rudder must be obtained in order to establish their
tactical qualities; but the retardation in speed due to the vessel's
angular advance through the water and the drag of her rudder is
a subject that has been neglected.
Accurate data concerning a ship's retardation in turning would
be of assistance to the ship for two reasons. In the first place,
engagements in the future will, in all probability, be fought at
great ranges, and possibly with targets obscured from ship's di-
rectors, necessitating indirect fire; our plotting, tracking and range
keeping become of utmost importance and consequently anything
that tends to their accuracy is of value. In problems of fire con-
trol, we have always considered as known factors the course and
speed of our own ship. The ship's course is known as accurately
as the compass provides it, but the speed may temporarily be in
error. The flexibility of our battle line which allows the change
of course of units, or even of ships in certain instances, anticipates
numerous changes of course of each ship during a major engage-
ment. These changes may easily come at a crucial point of the
battle and it would certainly add to the accuracy of the range keep-
ing if the operator knew how much speed the ship lost for each
change of course. Second, from a tactical standpoint it would be
of assistance during maneuvers if the speed of the vessel were
known when the vessel was turning up to an assigned position from
a course at an angle with that of the guide.
On August 6, 1924, the U. S. S. Maryland, Captain Frank H.
Clark, U. S. Navy, commanding, Commander W. L. Calhoun,
U. S. Navy, navigator, took tactical data in Puget Sound off Port


  p. 1718 (#650)                      #

Turning Circles
U.S.S.Maryland.
Ships heed 90°
Tine 0-00
l Rudder 18+ Right@
or'
Wind 300' Force 12
Sea calm
1
o--2-
pSpor
oro o a
&
P Spar
Ships head o
e
9 Ships mecson
å se og
-
SAips head 270
line 50
(Ships need 30°
Tine 0
Rudder 174 Loft ® 0-or


  p. 1719 (#651)                      #

1925)
1721
Retardation of Ships' Speed
Angeles, Washington, as directed by Commander Battleship Divi-
sions, Battle Fleet, in an effort to ascertain something concerning
the ship's retardation on turns. A brief description of the method
used in obtaining the data and the results observed, together with a
plot of turns made, follow.
A spar weighted to float at the mean draft of the ship was put
over to afford a reference point for observations. The spar so
weighted and floating freely in the same water as the ship auto-
matically compensated for any set and drift of current which might
affect the ship’s turning. The wind was 300° (true) but was so
light as not to affect the turning of a ship of this type. In order
not to be wholly dependent on the reading of a short range base
range finder two officers with stadimeters were sent in a pulling
boat with instructions to keep as close as possible to the spar
without actually touching it or affecting its drift by the movement
of their boat. Stadimeter readings were taken on the foremast of
the ship and range finder readings on spar were taken from the
bridge, so that not more than ten yards difference in ranges from
ship to boat and from boat to ship should have occurred. A time
signal was arranged whereby observers in the boat could start
stop watches simultaneously with watches on board ship; signals
were also arranged so that ranges could be taken from the boat
and the ship simultaneously. In the accompanying plot of turns,
positions by stadimeter from the boat are marked by small crosses,
and range finder positions are marked by circles.
The ship made the approach on the spar from a distance of
over two miles to insure a steady course and speed at the com-
mencement of the turn. When the ship reached a point such that.
the turning circle would circle the buoy, the order was given,
“Right Standard Half Rudder”—watches were started, the time
signal executed and a range and bearing were taken on the spar.
At each 10° change of course an observer stationed at the steering
gyro repeater sang out “Mark," time was noted, boat was signalled
to take stadimeter reading and range and bearing were taken from
the ship. When the ship had turned 180° the rudder was eased
and the ship steadied on her course as usual. An observer at the
rudder had observed the exact rudder angle and although it was
not exactly standard half rudder, the helm was not changed after
the turn was once started. The throttle was not changed during


  p. 1720 (#652)                      #

of
Turring Circles
U.S.S.Maryland.
Ships head 90
Tine 0-00
I pudder 184 Right @ 007
Wind 500" force 1-2
Sea calm.
210*
------
---
ter geen
PSpar
p Spar
Ships kecd09
toong
are o_ees
0-
on 270
Ships need 80
Time 0-0
(Ruador 171 Lefta 0-0%


  p. 1721 (#653)                      #

1925)
1721
Retardation of Ships' Speed
Angeles, Washington, as directed by Commander Battleship Divi-
sions, Battle Fleet, in an effort to ascertain something concerning
the ship's retardation on turns. A brief description of the method
used in obtaining the data and the results observed, together with a
plot of turns made, follow.
A spar weighted to float at the mean draft of the ship was put
over to afford a reference point for observations. The spar so
weighted and floating freely in the same water as the ship auto-
matically compensated for any set and drift of current which might
affect the ship's turning. The wind was 300° (true) but was so
light as not to affect the turning of a ship of this type. In order
not to be wholly dependent on the reading of a short range base
range finder two officers with stadimeters were sent in a pulling
boat with instructions to keep as close as possible to the spar
without actually touching it or affecting its drift by the movement
of their boat. Stadimeter readings were taken on the foremast of
the ship and range finder readings on spar were taken from the
bridge, so that not more than ten yards difference in ranges from
ship to boat and from boat to ship should have occurred. A time
signal was arranged whereby observers in the boat could start
stop watches simultaneously with watches on board ship; signals
were also arranged so that ranges could be taken from the boat
and the ship simultaneously. In the accompanying plot of turns,
positions by stadimeter from the boat are marked by small crosses,
and range finder positions are marked by circles.
The ship made the approach on the spar from a distance of
over two miles to insure a steady course and speed at the com-
mencement of the turn. When the ship reached a point such that.
the turning circle would circle the buoy, the order was given,
“Right Standard Half Rudder"-watches were started, the time
signal executed and a range and bearing were taken on the spar.
At each 10° change of course an observer stationed at the steering
gyro repeater sang out "Mark," time was noted, boat was signalled
to take stadimeter reading and range and bearing were taken from
the ship. When the ship had turned 180° the rudder was eased
and the ship steadied on her course as usual. An observer at the
rudder had observed the exact rudder angle and although it was
not exactly standard half rudder, the helm was not changed after
the turn was once started. The throttle was not changed during


  p. 1722 (#654)                      #

1722
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
the turn and revolution counter readings were taken every thirty
seconds.
The same procedure was repeated in a turn to port. The ranges
and bearings taken were plotted to scale on coordinate paper. In
cases where times of ranges from ship and boat were not identical,
interpolation was done for bearing at the time of boat range. A
curve was faired through points thus obtained giving equal weight
to boat and ship ranges. The accompanying plots of turns are
copies of those submitted by the commanding officer to the Chief
of Naval Operations.
From the curves plotted and times of each 10° change of ship's
head the following interesting results are obtained :
a) Very little retardation seems to occur in the first 10° change
of course and each succeeding 10° shows an increasing amount of
slowing, up to 70°, from which point the retardation falls off, and
after 90° the speed is almost steady.
b) Practically the entire retardation takes place in the first 90°
of the turn.
c) Speed of approach was 12.4 knots, speed at completion of
turn 9.5 knots, or a total retardation of 2.9 knots, or twenty-three
per cent of the total original speed.
d) This vessel apparently turns more sharply and rapidly to
port than to starboard.
e) The retardation in turns to port and starboard are approxi-
mately the same.
f) The curves check the original tactical data of the ship very
closely, except that for turns of over 90°, the ship appears to trans-
fer less to port and more to starboard than the original tactical
data indicates.
It seems that the above observations fully warrant more com-
plete investigation of the subject of retardation and it is submitted
that this feature of the study of speed should be given due con-
sideration in the future.


  p. 1723 (#655)                      #

DISCUSSION
Star Identification Diagram
Midshipman (now Ensign) L. H. Burkhead and Midshipman (now Ensign)
W. H. BENSON
(See page 1667, September, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
G. W. LITTLEHALES.—The present Star Identification Diagram comprises
essentially the meridians of a stereographic meridian-projection of the
celestial sphere, and the procedure for its use described in the article by the
authors of the diagram depends upon the application of the principles of the
stereographic projection to the transformation of spherical coordinates.
In Fig. 1, let us suppose that the full lines, consisting of a system of
great circles and parallels on the stereographic projection, with C and D
as the poles of the latter, have served to project the points L and M, the
coordinates of which are given. Let us
suppose, further, that L is one of the poles
of a similar set of great circles represented
by the dashed lines and that to this system
of dashed lines, which serve for the
measurement of another system of spherical
coordinates, the point M is to be referred
for the solution of the problem. To make
the explanation more practical, let us assume
first, that the full lines consist of hour
circles and parallels of declination, the
primitive or bounding circle being the
meridian of the observer, C the elevated
FIGURE I
celestial pole, and that having the hour angle
and declination of a celestial body given, we have projected its place, M,
upon the figure; second, that L is the zenith, the dashed lines vertical circles
and parallels of altitude, and that we require the azimuth and altitude of
the body at M.
If the graduation of the primitive and of the dashed-line diameter or
horizon GH were properly numbered we should simply have to note the
parallel of altitude and the azimuth circle passing through the point M,
follow one to the primitive and the other to the horizon, and take readings,
in order to find the altitude and the azimuth of the body, that is to say, the
coordinates of the point M, according to the system of coordinates measured
by the dashed lines. So long as the relative positions of the two points
L and C remained the same such a figure would serve for the solution of


  p. 1724 (#656)                      #

1724
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
similar problems involving any other position of an interior point M; but,
since the relative positions of L and C are constantly changing in practice,
no two sets of lines similar to those of the figure, and printed upon a single
sheet, can be of universal application in the manner described.
To meet the requirements of general application, Chauvenet combined two
identical stereographic projections, one fixed and the other transparent, and
designed to rotate concentrically with the first so that the relation of the
zenith to the elevated pole could be readily set. In the "Graphical Method
for Navigators,” published in the PROCEEDINGS of the Naval Institute,
Vol. XI, No. 2, 1885, whole No. 33, Sigsbee showed how to adapt the fixed
one of these projections to serve the purpose of both systems for all positions
of L and M.
The position of M, with respect to the dashed lines, is defined by its
position relative to the points L and O. Since the two systems of lines
are similar, if we transfer M to M' so that M' shall have the same position
with respect to C and O that M has with respect to L and O, then M'
will have the same relation to the full lines that M has to the dashed lines,
and we may therefore let M' represent M, and the system of full lines, in
connection therewith, represent the system of dashed lines. Briefly, then,
the method is to assume, first, that the full lines represent a system of
spherical coordinates to correspond with the given data, and then to project
L and M; next, to transfer M to M', and then to assume that the same
lines represent another system of spherical coordinates, to which it is
necessary to refer to M' for a solution.
The following elementary, graphical process forms the basis of solutions.
Having projected on the diagram two points, as L and M, given in position,
one upon the primitive or bounding circle, and the other within, conceive a
sector, LOG, whose radii, OL and OG, shall include these points. Con-
ceive the imaginary sector to be revolved about 0 until L coincides with
some other given point upon the primitive, as C; then find M', the revolved
position of M. The radii need never be drawn.
There are various ways of finding M'. Since, in principle, one case em-
braces all, let it be required to revolve the sector LOG about 0 and L
coincides with C and find M'. Since L will traverse the arc LC, the point
G will traverse and equal arc GB.
Lay a piece of tracing paper upon the diagram and trace the points
L, O, and M. Revolve the tracing about 0 until L coincides with C; the
traced point M will fall at M'.
In performing this transformation of spherical or astronomical co-
ordinates, the angular amount of the revolution performed about the
central point of the meridian stereographic projection is expressed by the
value of the co-latitude. This will appear from a consideration of the
transformation of coordinates as a direct, visual solution of the astronomical
triangle effected in the manner about to be explained.


  p. 1725 (#657)                      #

1925]
1725
Discussion
In Fig. 2, if the latitude of the observer be laid off along the bounding
meridian at L, and the declination of the observed celestial body be laid off
at M along a meridian making an angle with the bounding meridian equal
to the hour-angle of the observed celestial
body, an astronomical triangle will be
formed in which the known parts are the
two sides CL and CM, representing re-..
spectively the co-latitude and co-declination,
and their included angle LCM, which is the
hour-angle of the observed celestial body.
Two of the unknown parts of this triangle
are the azimuth, CLM, and the co-altitude,
LM, of the observed celestial body. If the
triangle CLM, were revolved about the
central point of the projection, with the side,
CL, kept in coincidence with the bounding
FIGURE 2
meridian until the point L is brought to the
position of the point C, the latter would then occupy the position P, and the
point M would fall at M', so that the unknown side of the triangle, repre-
senting the co-altitude, would lie along some meridian, and could be measured
from the graduation of the projection, and the unknown angle, representing
the azimuth, would become an included angle between two meridians, which
could likewise be measured from the graduations of the projection; and
thus the altitude and azimuth of any observed celestial body could be
simultaneously determined from the diagram with any degree of precision
that the scale of the projection might permit. In the more recent designs,
to obviate the necessity for actual revolution of the triangle, a series of
equally spaced concentric circumferences and a series of equally spaced
radial lines have been drawn over the projection in lines of dashes. For the
purposes of designation, the overlaid system of concentric circumferences
is numbered serially from the center of the projection outward to the
bounding meridian, and the radials are also marked by numbers indicating
their angular distance in minutes of arc reckoned in a counter-clockwise
direction from some fixed origin, like the line OD; so that, having plotted
the declination and hour-angle of the observed celestial body at M, it is
only necessary to note the number of the circumference and the number of
the radial which pass through this position, and then, adding the co-latitude
expressed in minutes to the number of the radial, find the intersection, M',
of the noted circumference with the radial whose number is the sum just
found, and read off from the graduated arcs of the projection the altitude
and azimuth of the point of intersection. Likewise, when the altitude of
a star is measured, if its compass bearing be observed and the approximate
true azimuth be obtained by correcting the bearing for the variation and
deviation of the compass, the identity of the star may at once be ascertained
by reversing the order of proceeding that has been described for finding
the altitude and azimuth from the declination and hour-angle—that is, having


  p. 1726 (#658)                      #

1726
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
plotted the corrected altitude of the star on the meridian of the projection
which makes an angle with the left-hand bounding meridian equal to the
star's azimuth counted from the elaborated pole, note the number of the
radial and the number of the circumference that pass through the point so
plotted, and, having subtracted the co-latitude of the place of observation
expressed in minutes from the number of the noted radial, find the inter-
section of the noted circumference with radial whose number is the re-
mainder thus found by subtraction, and read from the graduations of the
projection the declination of this point and its hour-angle from the left-
hand bounding meridian. The hour-angle of the observed star thus found
must be converted into right ascension. Then scan the star tables of the
Nautical Almanac and find the name of the star whose tabulated righ
ascension and declination come nearest to the values of the right ascension
declination that have been deduced.
Divesting their projection of the system of parallels which usually
accompanied the meridians or vertical circles, and of the radials of the
overlaid system circumferences and radials, Burkhead and Benson have
accomplished the procedure, which has been described for the transforma-
tion of coordinates or solution of the astronomical triangle, by resorting
to the necessary construction on the projection to supply the parts which are
dispensed with in their Star Identification Diagram, thus securing more
clearness in the diagram by performing more construction in the solutions.
To the extent of refinement with which the primitive or bounding circle
of the diagram is divided, the missing radials may readily be supplied, as
occasion requires, by drawing radii from the central point, O, to the
graduations of the primitive; and the required
point of the missing parallel is found, as illus-
trated in Fig. 3, by recourse to that principle
of the stereographic projection which teaches
that a required point on a parallel will be
found where the given meridian through the
point is cut by a straight line drawn from
the point on the primitive marking the latitude
of the parallel to a point on the equator 90°
of longitude from the given meridian.
It is the application of such principles, show-
FIGURE 3
ing an insight into the stereographic projection
and resulting in a convenient numbering of
the graduations of the equator and of the primitive for the conversion of
hour and minutes into units of space, that lends interest and merit to the
present production.


  p. 1727 (#659)                      #

1925]
1727
Discussion
Why Change the Organization of the Navy Department
(See page 357, March, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
COMMANDER JOHN N. JORDAN, (SC), U. S. Navy. It is easy to say
what is, is right, and let it go at that. But, in nautical terms, to rest on
your oars and let the boat drift, only to realize later that you have lost
your headway and that some current or breeze is setting you on the rocks,
is not good seamanship. A long pull and a strong pull together keep up
the speed and hold the boat to its directed course. The advantage must be
taken of the favorable currents and a careful lookout kept to avoid danger
and the forces that may have a bad effect on the speed and course of the
vessel.
These seafaring platitudes are well known, and their application in our
daily life goes with our progress as a nation. To apply them to our Navy
with a view to crystallizing thought and making officers and men of the
naval service and others think on our present administrative organization
and the welfare of the Navy is a matter of general interest and special
study.
The present course set for the Navy since the conclusion of the Treaty
Limiting Naval Armaments is well laid, as evidenced by the general approval
given to it by the country and the appropriations made by Congress. The
spirit of the Navy and the interest taken both from within and from
without have been revived and enhanced since the adoption of a published
policy to meet the conditions of the new era on which the United States has
entered since the war as a world power.
The question now arises: With the personnel, ships and shore stations
allowed and the money provided by Congress, is the Navy Department able
to carry out the policy adopted with its present administrative organization
and detailed methods in use in an efficient manner?
The present organization of the Navy Department is a development based
on the principle of authority and responsibility as required by expansion,
experience, and invention to meet the needs of the service today and the
naval warfare of the future. The expansion has been based on economic
conditions of the capacity and skill of individuals to perform repeated or
specialized tasks efficiently. The experience has been gained by a study of
the result of individual effort applied to actual conditions. Invention, the
result of original thought, and the ingenuity of individuals, has changed the
material conditions of life and property so decidedly that the organization
has had to conform to the improved material and better social conditions of
the day.
The scientific development of the Navy's personnel organization has,
therefore, resulted in a natural division of the duties and service required
by the conditions created from time to time since the beginning of the
Navy. This development is at present represented by the line of the Navy
as detailed for the many duties for which it is qualified and by the staff
corps as provided for the special service rendered by these several corps.


  p. 1728 (#660)                      #

1728
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
There is, of necessity, a considerable interchange of duty between the
line and the staff corps on account of special experience and knowledge
gained through the service of individuals, which provides for the coordina-
tion of the many activities and special services rendered for and by the Navy
as a whole.
The authority and course of events leading up to the establishment and
organization of the Navy Department is clearly set forth in the Constitution,
Revised Statutes, Navy Regulations, General Orders and Instructions issued
by proper authority for the guidance of the naval service.
The following is a general outline of the history of creation of the Navy
Department, its organization and the effect of the above-mentioned docu-
ments as given in opinions rendered by the U. S. Attorney General, taken
from the compilation of the laws relating to the Navy, Navy Department,
and Marine Corps, which was prepared by Mr. George Melling, attorney
in the office of the Judge Advocate General, by authority of the Secretary
of the Navy pursuant to a resolution of the United States Senate.
In order to carry out the purpose of the government of the United States
expressed in the preamble of the Constitution, as adopted on March 4,
1789, Clause 13. Section 3, Article 1 of the Constitution reads, “To provide
and maintain a Navy.” By the Acts of August 7, 1789, the Department of
War was established, and the Secretary of War was required to perform
the duties relative to the military and naval affairs. During the adminis-
tration of John Adams, when the magnitude of our commerce and im-
portance of our maritime relations induced the government to pay more
attention to the military marine, Congress, by the Act of April 30, 1798.
established the Department of the Navy. The head of the Department was
to be called the Secretary of the Navy, whose duty it should be to execute
such orders as might be received from the President relative to the pro-
curement of naval stores and materials, and the construction, armament,
equipment, and employment of vessels of war, as well as to all other
matters connected with the naval establishment of the United States. It
was to be established at the seat of government, and the Department, with
its bureaus or offices, is, in the contemplation of the law, an establishment
distinct from the branches of the public service and the offices thereof which
are under its supervision.
The Revised Statutes provide that the business of the Department of the
Navy shall be distributed in such manner as the Secretary of the Navy
shall judge to be expedient and proper among the bureaus. The several
bureaus that have been provided for under a chief of bureau or other
officer, from time to time since the establishment of the Department of the
Navy are as follows: Bureau of Yards and Docks, Bureau of Equipment
and Recruiting (the Naval Appropriation Acts for the fiscal years 1911-14
provided for the distribution of the duties, funds, and employees of the
Bureau of Equipment among the other bureaus and offices of the Navy
Department, and the Bureau of Equipment was abolished by the Act of
June 30, 1914), Bureau of Navigation, Bureau of Ordnance, Bureau of


  p. 1729 (#661)                      #

19251
1729
Discussion
Construction and Repair, Bureau of Steam Engineering, Bureau of Pro-
visions and Clothing (changed by the Act of July 19, 1892, to the Bureau
of Supplies and Accounts), Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, Bureau of
Aeronautics. The office of the Judge Advocate General of the Navy, while
simply designated as an office, is one of the coordinate branches of the
Navy Department, with responsibilities of no less importance than those of
the chief of bureaus. Other boards, commissions, councils, and offices have
been authorized by law and in accordance with the Appropriation Acts to
perform certain specific duties as required by the increasing numbers or size
of the activities of the Navy Department.
Congress, in making appropriations for the naval service, recognizes the
distribution of duties as made by the Secretary of the Navy. In the appro-
priation acts the moneys appropriated for expenses are placed under the
heading of the different bureaus in conformity with the Revised Statutes.
While, therefore, it is within the authority of the Secretary of the Navy
to make any changes in the distribution of business that may seem to him
expedient and proper, such authority must be exercised so as not to conflict
with any Act of Congress.
The work of the Navy Department may be grouped under general
divisions, each of which may include different bureaus, and in each division
the Secretary of the Navy may detail an officer of the Navy as an “aide” to
advise the Secretary on all matters pertaining to the duties of the division
and to transmit orders of the Secretary to the various chiefs of bureaus
and to other subordinates of the Department, signing such orders "by
direction of the Secretary of the Navy." However, such aides cannot,
individually or collectively, exercise any supervisory authority over the
chiefs of bureaus.
By Change No. 6 in the Navy Regulations dated November 18, 1909, there
were established the following aides as advisers to the Secretary of the
Navy: “Aide for Personnel," "Aide for Operations," "Aide for Material,"
and "Aide for Inspections." In view of the conflict of authority or assumed
authority between the new departments and the bureaus, this super-depart-
mental organization did not function with success, nor did it have the sanction
and backing of congressional action. The several offices were abolished by
a change in the Navy Regulations dated July 15, 1915.
It is apparently beyond the power of the Secretary of the Navy to create
new bureaus or offices and appoint new officers to perform the business of
the Department, other than those previously authorized by law, as indicated
by the opinion of the Attorney General rendered on October 27, 1909.
The present law, contained in the Act of July 11, 1890, provides for an
assistant secretary to be appointed from civil life by the President, to
perform such duties as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Navy as
required by law. The Chief of Operations, authorized by Act of March 3,
1915, as amended by the Act of August 29, 1916, is charged, under the
direction of the Secretary of the Navy, with the operations of the feet and
with the preparation and readiness of plans for its use in war, and is to


  p. 1730 (#662)                      #

1730
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
succeed to duties of the Secretary of the Navy during the temporary
absence of the Secretary and the Assistant Secretary.
The bureaus of the Department are, in effect, authorized under the pro
visions of the law providing for the manner of appointment of the chieís
of the several bureaus, who are, by their appointment and duties, officers
of the Department and advisers to the Secretary of the Navy, in addition
to their status as commissioned officers in the naval service.
The Statutes give full authority to the heads of the various bureaus and
to the acting heads thereof, when properly designated, to issue under
authority of the Secretary of the Navy all orders pertaining to the business
of their respective bureaus with the same force and effect as though the
orders were issued by the Secretary himself.
Congress, in making legislation providing for the establishment of the
executive departments, has not attempted to regulate by statute the minute
movements of every part of the complicated machinery of government. It
has, however, in making appropriations, required certain duties and services
to be performed by specific branches of ihe departmental organization. By
a study of the Statutes, it will be noted that, in general, the existing law
provides for the agency to be established to carry on the business of the
Department, except for certain restrictions placed on the employment of
personnel of the naval establishment and the specific duties required of
the Bureau of Supplies and Accounts in the accounting to be made for
property and for the expenditures of money.
So much for the general outline of the organization of the Navy Depart-
ment as it exists today under the provisions of law and regulations affecting
it, with its civilian secretary and assistant secretary, chief of operations and
the chiefs of bureaus, boards and offices. Under this organization, the
Navy has developed and the country has received the benefits of the service
rendered in peace and war. During the World War the successful adminis-
tration of the naval service was carried on with the enormous increases in
personnel, ships and activities, which, under any other organization, might
have completely failed under such conditions. It has met the changing con-
ditions of modern times, and is today a leader in scientific development.
What better recommendation can a service have than the acknowledgment
of success gained by it in accomplishing results.
The details of organization are always subject to change, and it is to the
credit of the service at large that initiative and endeavor have never been
condemned or set aside when properly directed.
Subordinate to the policy outlined by the President of the United States
to Congress each year, together with a report of the condition of national
affairs, the Secretary of the Navy reports on the service rendered by, and
the condition of, the Navy, together with his recommendation for its develop-
ment as one of the arms of the national defense. Among other reports
made by the Secretary of the Navy to Congress, there is a complete state-
ment of the appropriations of the Navy, showing the amount appropriated
under each specific head of appropriation, the amount expended under each


  p. 1731 (#663)                      #

1925]
1731
Discussion
head, and the balance which, on June 30 preceding such report, remained
unexpended, with the probable demands which may remain under each
appropriation.
In submitting estimates to carry out the policies of the government, and
the recommendations of the Secretary of the Navy as to the construction,
armament, equipment, and employment of vessels of war, as well as all
other matters connected with the naval establishment, a very careful and
detailed analysis is made of the money required to obtain the desired result.
Since the adoption of the National Budget System by the Budget Act
of 1921, all executive departments and agencies are required, in order to
secure greater economy and efficiency in the conduct of public service,
to submit their estimates of expenditures and appropriations necessary for
the support of the Department for the ensuing fiscal year, to the President
via the Bureau of the Budget. The Bureau of the Budget, when directed
by the President, is required to make a detailed study of the departments
and establishments for the purpose of enabling the President to determine
what changes should be made in (1) the existing organization, activities,
and methods of business of such departments or establishments, (2) the
appropriations therefor, (3) the assignment of particular activities to
particular services, or (4) the regrouping of services.
The head of each department and establishment is required to designate
an official thereof as a budget officer therefor, who, in each year, under his
direction, on or before a date fixed by him, shall prepare the departmental
estimates.
The law provides that the chiefs of the several bureaus shall furnish
to the Secretary of the Navy estimates for specific, general, and contingent
expenses of the Department and of the several bureaus. The arrangement
and order of the estimates are to be the same as provided for in the
appropriation acts for the preceding year. Any changes therein, and
transfers of salaries from one office or bureau to another office or bureau,
or consolidation of offices or bureaus desired by the head of the department,
may be indicated by a note in the estimates. The estimates for expenditures
required by the Navy Department for certain purposes must be given in
detail.
In appropriating money for the naval service, Congress makes a very
careful study of the amounts appropriated and the expenditures made for
the preceding year. The subcommittee of the House of Representatives
Committee on Appropriations conducts hearings, attended by the Secretary
of the Navy, the Assistant Secretary of the Navy, the Chief of Naval
Operations, the chiefs of bureaus, and other officers cognizant of the con-
dition of the business and funds required for the proper administration of
the many different activities coming under the naval establishment. These
hearings are supplemented by statements, recommendations, and full and
complete data, to provide the committee and Congress with information on
which to base their subsequent action in appropriating funds for the naval
service.


  p. 1732 (#664)                      #

1732
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
On the estimates made, supported by the detailed facts and information,
the committee is able to approve or disapprove the policy and appropriate
the funds required, with an assurance and confidence that the money is
needed and will be expended as provided. The annual appropriation for the
naval service for the fiscal year 1926 approximates three hundred million
dollars. The detail in which the appropriations are made clearly indicates
that the committee has taken into consideration detailed and specific knowl-
edge with reference to the expenditures affecting nearly every activity and
unit of the naval service.
It is to be noted here that in the above procedure the legislative body
has direct control over the initiation and approval of expenditures for the
Navy. Further action taken on naval appropriations by the Senate and
the approval given by the President to Acts of Congress are additional
controlling factors and have their effect in adding to or reducing the ex-
penditures originated in the House of Representatives.
The direct investigation made by the House Committee on Appropriations
of the service rendered by the many activities of the naval establishment
tends to simplify the administration of naval expenditures. The simplicity
of an organization depends on the physical ability and mental capacity of the
individuals personally to perform the service, or to produce a product as
time and circumstances will permit. It is believed that the representatives
of the people gain and exert a personal influence on the conduct of the
naval administration through their knowledge of the conditions as they exist
in the service.
The general comment or criticism which arises from time to time, due
to an effort to simplify and provide for more efficient methods in naval
administration, contemplates the grouping of the several bureaus charged
with the duty of the material maintenance and operation of ships afloat
and shore establishments under one head or bureau. Under this organization
there would be one appropriation under the control of such a bureau or
head.
Is it possible to conceive that the Appropriation Committees of Congress
would consider appropriating one or a reduced number of appropriations
without obtaining information as to the manner in which the funds were to
be expended? In order to secure information as to the use made of the
money provided for the service rendered and material and property obtained,
a systematic accounting is required.
In the appropriation acts by Congress it has been provided that the
Bureau of Supplies and Accounts shall keep the money accounts of the
naval establishment so as to show the direct and indirect charges in the
cost of work at industrial navy yards, and report them annually for the
information of Congress. It is also required to report annually to the
Secretary of the Navy all receipts and expenditures. The Bureau of
Supplies and Accounts is also required to report annually to Congress the
money value of the supplies on hand, supplies purchased and expended
during the year, and the balances remaining.


  p. 1733 (#665)                      #

1925)
1733
Discussion
Criticism is often made of the existing appropriation system in view of
the fact that funds provided under one appropriation cannot be transferred
from one appropriation to another. This situation, though at times working
to the disadvantage of the service to be rendered by an activity or unit of
the organization, affords a certain control over the expenditure of money
provided. This control is not only maintained by Congress under the
Appropriation Acts, but is also used and applied by the departmental organi-
zation to its field activities, consisting of shore stations and the ships afloat.
To a certain extent the difficulties that may be met by the possible
exhaustion of appropriation are overcome by the continuing appropriations
under which funds are usually provided in excess of the amounts required
during the fiscal year. The Naval Supply Account Fund is also provided
for the purchase of materials to be maintained as a stock of material for
general service use and chargeable to the current annual and other appropria-
tions when expended.
A provision might be made in making annual appropriations for a limited
additional amount to be carried over into the succeeding fiscal year to
provide for such contingencies as may arise where the service authorized
cannot be carried on because of the lack of funds. The conditions or
limitations under which such an additional appropriation might be provided
are numerous and practical of operation. Such an arrangement, however,
should not be made so that appropriations are transferable, as the accounting
under such conditions would be involved and impracticable, and subject to
constant controversy.
It has also been contended that, under the present organization of the
Navy Department, through the chiefs of bureaus there is not a unified
control over the expenditures of funds.
While it is necessary for the bureaus to require a control over the use
of funds in the field service, and the use of such funds is best understood
by those who are responsible for the service rendered by the major divisions
of the Navy Department, there is at present a close cooperation and inter-
change of information with reference to the use to be made of the funds
and the activities of the different bureaus, offices, or divisions concerned.
If any question arises as to the use of one appropriation as affecting several
appropriations, the Secretary of the Navy is well equipped by advisers,
consisting of the chiefs of bureaus and the budget officer, to decide on the
use to be made of the money, in accordance with the needs of the service.
As to the detailed methods of accounting for expenditures and the in-
formation required for the proper recording of the funds provided, the
responsibility of the Bureau of Supplies and Accounts is clearly defined by
law. The improvement of the detailed methods requires no reorganization
of the Navy Department.
Any accounting system is subject to the influences and desires of those
who wish to show or report expenditures as they think they should be made.
Undoubtedly, the best thought of the Department has been applied and
given to work out an accounting system both for appropriation and cost


  p. 1734 (#666)                      #

1734
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
accounting that will provide information required by Congress and for
administrative purposes. The fairest criticism to be made of the account-
ing system is that it is too detailed and too much is expected of it as a
panacea for all ills of the Navy Department and the industrial establish-
ments of its shore stations. Only by placing more responsibility on the
bureaus, and especially on the Bureau of Supplies and Accounts, to produce
the information desired and the reports required on current allotments and
expenditures, can the administration of appropriation expenditures be
handled in a more satisfactory manner.
The American people are blessed with a spirit of initiative, ingenuity,
and a willingness to try the latest development in all of the branches of
the arts and sciences. The Navy has been loaded down with the results of
modern invention and methods of organization. Every effort should be
made to reduce the number and complexity of these improvements along
the lines of bare necessity and simplicity. So far as possible, the adminis-
trative organization of the Navy Department should be continued along the
lines of the original organization, based on the major divisions of the service
to be rendered by the personnel of the service.
Diesel Engines for Capital Ships—A Military Necessity
(See page 1217, July, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
COMMANDER R. A. THEOBALD, U. S. Navy.—The article “Diesel Engines
for Capital Ships—A Military Necessity," by Captain A. M. Proctor, which
appeared in the July issue of the Institute PROCEEDINGS should serve the
purpose of starting discussion .concerning the practicability of such main
motive power for future captital ships. All such discussions must be
beneficial. The ultimate result may be that the marine engineers of this
country, after years of research, may evolve a Diesel engine of sufficient
power and sufficient ruggedness to meet what may well become an insistent
military demand for such propulsive machinery for capital ships.
Accepting the figures as to the economic operation of the Diesel engine
plant, and comparing those figures with known fuel expenditures for
present installations, there is no contradicting Captain Proctor's contention
that the Diesel engine installation (if and when rendered capable of utiliza-
tion for capital ship propulsion) is, indeed, a military necessity. With these
figures before us, it is not necessary to enlarge at great length on the
obvious logistic advantage that would result in any oversea naval compaign,
when Diesel engine development enables the Navy to use this type as out-
lined in the article.
In this connection, recent experiments on the Aorangi, a Diesel engined
23,000-ton passenger liner, are a matter of considerable interest. The ship is
driven by four Sulzer, two cycle, six cylinder engines on four propeller
shafts ; each engine has a continuous rate of 3,200 shaft h.p. with a maximum
two-hour rating of 3,800 shaft h.p. The Aorangi steamed continuously for
1,600 miles at an average of 17.91 knots, developing an average shaft horse-


  p. 1735 (#667)                      #

1925]
1735
Discussion
power of 12,200, at an average of 123 revolutions per minute. The fuel
capacity is 3,000 tons. If this fuel capacity was increased to the 5,000-ton
capacity, which is made the basis of Captain Proctor's article, the ship would
have had a cruising radius at 17.91 knots of about 45,000 miles.
This brings us to the question of whether or not the Diesel engine is
sufficiently developed to be seriously considered at the present writing for
the purpose of capital ship propulsion. It is true that the M. A. N.
Company, of Germany, prior to the World War, developed a six cylinder
engine, 2,000 brake h.p. per cylinder. Further, a test with a single cylinder
engine, according to the chief engineer of that company, enabled them to
prove by prolonged operation and continually increasing loads, that this
single cylinder engine was capable of operating at 145 revolutions a minute
with a brake h. p. of 3,200. However, this development in Diesel engines
in Germany by the M. A. N. Company, was the result of definite support
by the German Admiralty, with the definite goal established by the German
naval authorities of producing an engine of 2,000 or more brake h.p. per
cylinder. To date, there has been no such urge in this country, and it is a
significant fact at the present time that the American built Diesel engine
produces a maximum of about 750 brake h.p. per cylinder.
This fact is significant when we consider the history of electric drive
installation on board our capital ships. It was years after the electric
power plants on shore were handling loads well in excess of those demanded
by marine propulsion before consideration was given to installation of this
power for large ship marine propulsion. It seems reasonable to expect that
a similar situation must arise in the Diesel engineering field before the
Diesel engine would be seriously considered in similar manner. In other
words, very large Diesel engine power plants must be an established fact
in the mechanical engineering field of this country before we may expect
the engineers of the Navy to give serious consideration to this engine for
capital ship propulsion. The large Diesel engine must have thoroughly
established its reliability.
Recognizing the military advantage of electrical propulsion, it is wondered
why no suggestion of a possible Diesel electric installation was made in
this article.
In view of the present development of the Diesel engine, it is highly
probable that few if any will agree with the statement contained in the
final paragraph of Captain Proctor's article. This positive statement, how-
ever, should serve to enliven the resulting discussion.
Diesel Engines
(See page 1217, July, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER H. Gibson, U. S. Navy.—The article “Diesel
Engines for Capital Ships—A Military Necessity,” by Captain A. M.
Proctor, U. S. N., is, from a theoretical point of view, undoubtedly correct.
There are, however, many practical considerations in constructing such an


  p. 1736 (#668)                      #

1736
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
engine which would have to be met, and at the present state of the Diesel
engineering art are still experimental and untried. There are also many
necessary features in the development of a large Diesel engine for capital
ships which are not required for the development of large Diesel engines
for commercial use. Conditions are not the same, and cannot be considered
as one and the same problem. The military requirements of a Diesel
engine installation in a capital ship must naturally subject itself to the
structural conditions of the spaces allowed in the ship and the necessary
subdivisions of the ship's hull to afford the maximum water-tight integrity.
These conditions impose difficulties which are not met in a merchant ship
or in the commercial field. These naval requirements of necessity divide
the problem of Diesel propulsion for capital ships into two classes or types:
namely, the large, slow-speed Diesel with the multiple cylinder type up to
possibly twelve cylinders, direct driven on the propeller shaft, the other
type being the light, high-speed Diesel, driven through reduction gears or
electric drive. Both schemes, of course, have advantages and disadvantages,
but the merits of each scheme will have to be seriously considered to meet
the conditions of the particular problem.
There is no question but that the future will develop a Diesel engine
for naval use in capital ships and the nation which first successfully de-
velops such an installation will have a decided military advantage over any
nation with capital ships driven by steam motive power.
As stated above, requirements of a Diesel driven capital ship are not the
same as in the commercial field and it seems unreasonable, particularly in
this country, to expect commercial firms to develop a Diesel engine meeting
these special requirements when there is no particular need for such a type
of engine in the commercial field. The statement of Captain Proctor, that
development of such an engine must be undertaken by a government agency,
is absolutely sound and if this government considers seriously the question
of driving capital ships by Diesel engines, it will be necessary for the govern-
ment to finance experimental development work for such an engine. Pro-
gress made in the development of Diesel engines has been such as to give
every reason to believe that such an engine can be developed and will be
developed, but, as stated in the above article, such experimenting will justify
all of the money, time and energy expended.
“Diesel” Engines for Capital Ships—A Military Necessity
(See page 1217, July, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
COMMANDER P. H. HAMMOND, U. S. Navy.—Undoubtedly, the statement
made in the opening paragraph of Captain Proctor's article on the Diesel
engine, as regards the cruising radius of ships engined with Diesels, is true;
but there is the danger of losing sight of perhaps more desirable features in
the engines of warships, in striving for economy in itself. Reliability
is more to be desired in warship propulsion than economy of operation
From the experience in the United States Navy the Diesel engine does not
compare with the steam turbine in reliability.


  p. 1737 (#669)                      #

1925)
1737
Discussion
Due to keenest competition in commercial service over practically all of
the trade routes of the world, the Diesel engine has received an enormous
increase in application to the types of ships suited for the service. The cost
of fuel oil has gone up so that even though operating at a higher efficiency
(using the Diesel engine) than possible in any type of steam plant, the cost
of operation (fuel) is greater than fifteen years ago.
The number of passengers carried on the transatlantic routes due to
restricted immigration to the United States has dropped off to such an extent
that reduction in operating cost is imperative. The Diesel engine is an
excellent solution to the problem of the comparatively low powered shipthe
type that has carried and carries today the bulk of the world's commerce.
There is the danger of losing sight of the desiderata of warship propulsion
in trying to fit the more economical type of engine to naval use.
Diesel engines at present do not use a low grade fuel oil as satisfactorily
as can be burned in marine boilers, and the Navy will find it necessary to
accept the poorer grades of fuel oil more and more, as the demands for the
better refined oils become greater in the industrial world.
Even with the enormous incentive to use the most economical methods
of propulsion-where economy is placed first on the builders' and operators'
end to be attained—the greatest power yet produced for marine installation
is some 30,000 horsepower (Motor Ship Aorangi 24,000 I.H.P.).
The details of the installation given in Captain Proctor's article in com-
parison to the steam installation on the U. S. S. Oklahoma need not be
discussed here, except, perhaps, in one or two particulars. In submarine
service the reduction in weight is more imperative than in other marine
installation: to this fact may be attributed the unreliability of our sub-
marine engines, or at least the unreliability of the earlier types. This
question of weight must be kept in mind in the design of larger marine
engines. To get the utmost reliability in the Diesel engine the weight per
horsepower cannot be reduced to as low a figure as is desirable. The weight
of machinery (Diesel type), in the comparison with weight of machinery in
the high pressure turbine installation as proposed by Sir Charles Parsons,*
is fifty per cent greater in the former than in the latter.
Warship design requires that, when necessary, the engines be operated
at, or near, full power as long as the fuel lasts. This is where the ships
with reciprocating engines operating with the grand feet during the World
War were at a great disadvantage. In similar circumstances the Diesel
engines would not experience boiler trouble, but it is safest to design on the
assumption that the engines must be run at high power for long periods
rather than otherwise.
In conclusion, Captain Proctor mentions the development of the Diesel
engine by the government rather than by private firms. Many of the
largest concerns, both in this country and abroad, are spending large sums
on the development of the internal combustion engine. All types of heavy
oil engines are being investigated. The driving incentive of keen competition
* (Marine Engineering and Shipping Age of May, 1925.)


  p. 1738 (#670)                      #

1738
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
to produce the most reliable and economical engine is behind the investiga-
tions. No doubt in a few years an outstanding type of engine, as regards
the cycle and other characteristics, will be evolved. Until such time,
particularly with regard to the limited funds available, it would seem
wiser to develop the Diesel engine for smaller ships and submarines rather
than for capital ships.
At present the theoretical promises of the Diesel engine are most alluring
but the lessons of past experience should be kept in mind in its application
to naval use. It is not believed that there is at present any type of heavy
oil engine suitable for use in capital ships.
Diesel Engines for Capital Vessels—A Military Necessity
(See page 1217, July, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
COMMANDER H. C. DINGER, U. S. Navy.-Captain Proctor's presentation
of the possibility of employing Diesel engines for capital vessels is most
interesting and this paper will no doubt bring to the fore the possibilities
of securing materially greater cruising radius for capital vessels. The use
of Diesel engines will no doubt double the cruising radius at low speeds
but the difficulty at present is how to get them into the space and hooked
up to the propellers under the conditions imposed on high powered capital
vessels.
The Diesel driven capital vessel appears to be still some considerable
distance in the future and before such an installation is attempted there
would have to be considerable experimentation in order that a much lighter
and more compact design than that now employed could be used.
Of course the Diesel engine is quite suitable for naval vessels of moderate
power, such as tenders, gunboats, and other auxiliaries, but where space is
very limited and light weight required, it is wifficult to see how it can be
used successfully. Heretofore, attempts to build Diesel engines of light
design have usually ended in failure. The lightest successful Diesels are
of the type built for the German submarines and which design is being used
for United States submarines and gunboats. This engine has been found
very expensive and difficult to build in this country.
A large, long-stroke Diesel engine built from materials now avail-
able is inherently heavy by reason of the fact that it has a comparatively
low number of revolutions and the piston speed cannot be increased to any
great extent. While cylinder construction can, by better design, be lightened,
this of itself will not reduce the weight necessary for reciprocating parts,
housings, shafting, and so forth.
The successful Diesel engines have been those where adequate weight
has been allowed. Where weights have been skimped, trouble has developed
in various different directions. In vessels where there is abundant space and
where moderate powers are used, the Diesel engine may well compete with
the steam plant. It will weigh more and cost more, but this can be more
than made up by reason of the better fuel economy.


  p. 1739 (#671)                      #

1925]
1739
Discussion
The proposition of going to materially larger cylinder diameters is full
of possible and probable difficulties.
The two cycle, double acting engine with larger cylinder diameter as
suggested by Captain Proctor appears to be the most promising field for
securing lighter engines and more power per cylinder. However, the Diesel
engine has a very long way to go before it can approach the limitations
of weight, space, and propeller conditions that are imposed by conditions
found on a high powered cruiser or capital vessel; powers of 50,000 s.h.p.
and above. The double acting, two cycle engine with large cylinders, as
yet, cannot be considered out of the experimental stage. While 1,000 h.p.
per cylinder may be considered as a probable success, the reliability of
cylinders of greater power than this is seriously in doubt; this, notwith-
standing successful shop tests of a few engines, some of which have been
cited by Captain Proctor.
Should we consider cylinders of 1,000 h.p. for 54,000 s.h.p.—about the
least power that would be put into a capital vessel-we might put this
power on three shafts with eighteen cylinders on a shaft. This is rather
complicated and some difficulty would be found in getting these engineers
below the protective deck and still have adequate access to the cylinders for
overhaul, and so forth. It would be possible, but would it be advisable
from the military point of view ?
The weights of such an installation would exceed that of turbo reduction
gear units by about fifty per cent. This might be saved in fuel but there
would be some doubt about it.
The existing designs would not go in the space. The engines would have
to be especially designed and might not be successful unless much costly
experimental work was done. With plenty of time and money it might be
accomplished successfully, but can the Navy spare the sums required?
The chief advantage of the Diesel engine is its economy, hence radius
of action. To secure this great radius economy at the low speeds is the
great desideratum. There is another way to secure this and that is by
using a combination of Diesel engines and steam installation. Here the
Diesel engine need be large enough only to give cruising speeds. This
may be one tenth to one fifth of the total power. By such an arrangement
a Diesel engine of a size that has been thoroughly tried out can be used in
combination with a turbo-reduction gear steam plant which would very
readily fit into the space available on high powered vessels.
This system would consist of the latest type of turbo-reduction gear on
two or more shafts. On two of the shafts would be mounted Electric
Motors, D.C., which would be energized by Diesel driven generators. The
method of operation would be similar to the system used on the V class
submarines, only it would be much simpler.
If we must go to Diesel drive for high powers, the more feasible proposi-
tion might be the use of high speed Diesel engine (submarine type) with
reduction gears. Designs on this basis have already been proposed. Here,
on two shafts, eight of these engines might be installed, four connected to


  p. 1740 (#672)                      #

1740
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
each reduction gear. Such an installation would be fairly compact but its
reliability is somewhat in doubt. The Diesel electric drive also might be
applied with the same type of engine. Such installations, however, would
weigh considerably more than turbo-reduction gear.
On the whole, it does not appear desirable to force the Diesel into high
speed, high powered vessels that are limited for space. The Diesel engine
does not seem to be well adapted for this field. For battleships and
cruisers a Diesel cruising installation can be made that will give us excellent
economy at low cruising speeds. Such a cruising installation will not
detract from the reliability of the main steam plant and yet will secure a
very large cruising radius at low speed.
Excellence of Naval Material
(See page 1573, September, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
COMMANDER G. L. ScHUYLER, U. S. Navy.-1. Lieutenant Commander
Craven's article proposes greatly improving excellence of naval material by
consolidating under one head the design sections of the several bureaus.
2. He supports his contention by a painstaking analysis in the War
College form of exposition. Even if we grant nothing else, the article is
useful as an illustration of orderliness of thought. To many it may be
very convincing, because, frankly, to refute it in equal detail and in similar
style involves much more work than most of us would care to expend.
3. Reasoning of this very careful sort is helpful, but it has never been
capable of definitely deducing the best form of government by analyzing
historical facts. This method of attack seems to succeed conclusively only
in the more mathematical sciences, of which naval administration surely is
not one. Moreover, the writer's premises will bear looking into.
4. Many excellent administrative schemes appear hopeless on paper if
accepted too literally, but they work, nevertheless, because they are not what
they seem. So with the Navy Department administration chart--one can
look at lines running from one circle to another and remark upon the
absence of some essential forms of liaison. In reality, such lines do exist,
but they are invisible on the chart, because they are informal, it being the
convention of chart-makers to omit them for that reason, even though they
are of extreme importance.
5. The design sections are so large that all could not go into a single
room, but it is difficult to see how they could be housed much closer together
than they now are in the Navy Department. Between them there are well
worn short cuts by which personnel constantly and informally come and go as
often as necessary to confer with those they need to see in the other bureaus.
6. There would be obvious setbacks, complications, and technical diffi-
culties in so drastic a reorganization as Lieutenant Commander Craven
proposes; but if navy department design matters were so hopelessly com-
partmented as he implies and pictures, one could well admit (with much


  p. 1741 (#673)                      #

1925)
1741
Discussion
less lengthy an argument than Lieutenant Commander Craven sees fit to
give to it), that something drastic was needed.
7. A close-up of Navy Department material design organization does
not reveal perfection, but, in the opinion of most of us, it comes far from
showing sufficiently serious pathological conditions to warrant the proposed
major operation.
Aviation in Coast Defense
(See page 1652, September, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
CAPTAIN W. H. STANDLEY, U. S. Navy.—The article “Aviation in Coast
Defense" by Captain A. W. Johnson, U. S. Navy, Assistant Chief of the
Bureau of Aeronautics, is timely. The pamphlet “Joint Army and Navy
Action in Coast Defense” is now in process of revision. This pamphlet, as
its name implies, covers joint action in coast defense only, but it is pro-
posed to have the revision include all joint army and navy action. Any
discussion tending to clarify army and navy joint action is therefore timely.
In the pamphlet "Joint Army and Navy Action in Coast Defense,” an
attempt was made to eliminate misunderstanding and friction, and to bring
about cooperation and coordination of effort by a clear and definite state-
ment of the functions and missions of the various branches of the two
services, and by stating definitely how to determine which service has
paramount interest and when.
In a further effort to the same end, and also to prevent duplication of
effort, the War and Navy Departments, through the action of the Joint
Board, have agreed upon a "policy of the Army and Navy relating to air-
craft.” This agreement, published in Army General Order No. 20, dated
June 30, 1924, and Navy General Order No. 132, dated July 7, 1924, gives
the functions of aircraft of the Army, Navy, and Marine Corps, and also
provides for another joint agency, the Aeronautical Board, whose duty it is
to consider and make recommendations concerning "whatever it considers
essential to establish sufficiency and efficiency of cooperation and coordina-
tion of effort between the Army Air Service and Naval Aviation.”
It would, therefore, seem that the question of aviation in coast defense
is already so thoroughly covered by departmental definition and regulations,
and by provisions for considering and making changes in these regulations,
that there could be no chance for controversy or misunderstanding. As a
matter of fact, this is the case, and we would not have heard of this con-
troversy over aviation in coast defense were it not for the agitation for
the united air service.
The proponents of the united air service contend that aviation has
revolutionized warfare. They do admit that armies and navies, or parts
thereof, are still necessary, but only as adjuncts or auxiliaries to the united
air service. They contend that decisions of such men as Generals Pershing,
J. L. Hines, March, Haan, Lassiter, Nolan, Wells, Eltinge, Heintzelman,
and Admirals Eberle, Coontz, Oliver, Williams, Shoemaker, Robertson,
Jackson, Cole, Bostwick, members or ex-members of the Joint Board, and


  p. 1742 (#674)                      #

1742
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
General Patrick and Admiral Moffett, senior members of the Aeronautical
Board, are ill-founded, obsolete, and out of date, and that such of these
officers as are not fliers are totally unfitted to pass upon questions of tactical
or strategical coordination of our military and naval forces for national
defense. In fact, these proponents have gone so far as to actually state
that the only officers now qualified to pass upon such questions are mem-
bers of the flying service.
The reason for such extravagant statements is not hard to find. The
cause of the united air service cannot, in the present state of air develop-
ment, be supported by sound reasoning. There is no necessity in this
country, as yet, and therefore no demand, for a "united air service.” The
highest military and naval authorities are in entire accord as to the functions
and missions of the various branches, including the air, of the Army and
Navy. In order to support their cause the united air service proponents
have resorted to all sorts of extravagant statements, which in many cases
are misleading and not susceptible of proof. They have attempted to dis-
credit the Joint Board, the Aeronautical Board, and, in fact, all of the high
ranking officers of the two services, as well as the Secretary of War and
the Secretary of the Navy. In fact, there are no lengths to which they will
not go, as evidenced by their efforts to introduce into one of the service
appropriation bills a rider which would prevent the Navy from using air-
craft in carrying out its mission in coast defense as assigned by the Joint
Board, and which would even restrict naval facilities to such an extent as
to make it impossible for planes carried by vessels under overhaul at a
navy yard to land at the navy yard. It is a case of everybody being out of
step with the music, except the "united air service" proponents.
As a result of the activities and contentions of these united air service
proponents, there was an investigation by one of the committees of Con-
gress into the question of functions and missions of aircraft as determined
by and laid down in departmental publications. No matter in which direc-
tion this investigation led, one was always forced to the same conclusions:
namely, that there is no duplication of effort in the functions and missions
of aircraft as now prescribed by the Department, and that there would be
a duplication of effort if the patrolling of sea lanes were taken away from
the Navy and turned over to the Army Air Service or turned over to a
"united air service.” These inevitable conclusions were reached through
logical process of reasoning as a result of the agreement to the following
facts:
a) That according to the most optimistic views as to the future develop-
ment, the distance to seaward that shore-based planes could be expected to
operate, was about 250 miles.
b) That for protection of our interests beyond this 250 mile limit, we
would still require a Navy.
c) That whatever were the geographical limits to which they might
restrict the Navy, it must still have its air arm.
d) That the navy air arm would require a special type of plane for
flying over the water.


  p. 1743 (#675)                      #

1925)
1743
Discussion
c) That the same type of plane would be used by the Navy in patrolling
the sea lanes.
f) That to properly interpret the language of the sea, pilots should have
sea training.
9) That if patrolling the sea lanes were assigned as an army air service
or a "united air service" mission, a special type of plane and especially
trained pilots (which they do not now require under assigned functions and
missions of aircraft) would be required.
Conclusions.-1. That there is no duplication of effort under present
assigned missions and functions of aircraft.
2. That there would be duplication of effort in personnel, as well as in
types of planes, if patrolling the sea lanes were assigned as an army air
service or a "united air service” function.
The question of coast defense has been a series of recurring controver-
sies. No sooner do we settle and bury one controversy than another springs
up. The question as to whether or not coast defense should be turned over
to the Navy and be manned by the marines was argued for a long time.
When the submarines appeared, it was contended that they should be turned
over to coast defense. Now we have the question of the air, which again
brings up the question of coast defense. It would seem that there is no end
to the controversy, and there is a reason for this. Coast defense is on the
border between the land, the domain of the Army, and the sea, the natural
element of the Navy, and under these conditions, of course, there cannot
help but be an overlapping of interests and responsibilities. The Navy
naturally operates up to the shore line. The purpose of coast defense guns
is also to cover the approach by water-overlapping of responsibilities is
unavoidable. This is evidenced, as Captain Johnson shows, by the fact
that no two powers have identical plans for coast defense. The air
weapon does not help to remedy the difficulty. It simply extends the
area over which there is overlapping of responsibilities. The Navy
must still come as far as the shore line, and the Army can now deliver an
attack by bombing at a much greater distance to seaward; so the overlapping
of responsibilities is still with us. It was this overlapping of responsibility
and resulting confusion which created the demand for joint agencies to
bring about cooperation and coordination of forces to prevent duplication
of effort. The Joint Board and the Aeronautical Board have accomplished
wonders in this respect, and it should be the duty of every officer in the
military and naval service to loyally support the agreements which have
been reached by these joint agencies in an effort to eliminate contention and
strife between the sister services.
Captain Johnson has covered his subject thoroughly. He has discussed
every phase in an impartial manner. His article is an appeal for sanity
in coast defense and hence, national defense-an appeal for faith and con-
fidence in the wisdom and judgment of our two secretaries, War and Navy,
and of the highest ranking officers of the Army and Navy. It is a sincere


  p. 1744 (#676)                      #

1744
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
and earnest protest against radicalism and fanaticism, for certainly only
a fanatic would make, in all sincerity, the statements accredited to the pro-
ponents of the “united air service”; to wit, that only flying officers were
qualified to pass upon tactical and strategical utilization of our national
defense forces.
The question of the united air service is not dead. It is only sleeping
with the time-lock set for the opening of the next Congress. Aviation in
coast defense is only one of its manifestations. The public has generally
only been given half truths or misleading statements. The arguments for
the united air service cannot survive in the light of the whole truth. Cap-
tain Johnson has gone a long way toward such illumination, and each and
every one of us should exert his best effort toward educating Congress and
the public, lest the Navy be deprived of a most vital arm—the air.
A Balanced Fleet for the United States Navy
(See page 1107, July, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
BROCK HOLST LIVINGSTON.—Captain Taussig quoted from the General
Board: “Naval policy .... is based on and designed to support national
policies and American interests. .... The Navy of the United States
should be maintained in sufficient strength to support its policies and its
commerce, and to guard its continental and overseas possessions." Later,
he states that before "the promulgation of the Treaty for the Limitation of
Armaments, it was practicable to determine the numbers and classes of
vessels necessary for a balanced fleet without international restriction. This
is no longer possible. The balanced fleet for the United States . ...
depends greatly on the restrictions injected by the treaty." It must be
constantly borne in mind that the treaty limited capital ships and aircraft
carriers only. It made no mention whatever of limitation for cruisers
and other auxiliaries except to restrict them as to individual tonnage and
armament. Upon ratification of the treaty the various signatory nations
were found with great numbers of war-built vessels. Great Britain had a
preponderance of cruisers; the United States an excess of destroyers.
Neither of the classes were necessary in the numbers then constructed. The
vessels had been built under a war-time need. With peace came the
realization that these were faults which should be rectified. On our part
we knew that some of the destroyer tonnage should have been devoted to
cruisers; Great Britain felt that her cruisers were outclassed by larger,
modern ships. Both knew the navies were not well balanced. The navies
as they are constituted now are not sufficiently well balanced to be used as
models upon which to fashion future sea forces. We need not stand at
par with Great Britain in every type of vessel. Our needs may run to
preponderance in one class; theirs to another. It is for us to create a naval
policy providing for a navy sufficient to the end.
"To create, maintain, and operate a navy second to none, and in con-
formity with the ratios for capital ships established by the treaty for the


  p. 1745 (#677)                      #

1925]
1745
Discussion
Limitation of Naval Armaments.” This is the policy formulated by the
General Board. The ratio of 5-5-3 provides, not for an eventual capital
ship strength of eighteen, as mentioned as the basis for calculation hy
Captain Taussig, but for one of fifteen, the number to be retained after
the year 1936. Upon a basic force of fifteen capital ships it would then be
possible by the present policy, to reduce Captain Taussig's figures for all
other classes. Since we have a superiority in destroyers and since it is the
policy "to create .... a navy .... in conformity with the ratios for
capital ships" we must reduce our number of destroyers. There is a
surplus in this type and we shall never replace all of them when these
become obsolete. Naturally, we would not now scrap them because there
are a few more than Great Britain owns. This reduction must come about
in the future. Destroyer leaders must be built and present destroyers
scrapped. We must cut down and fill in until we have a compact, well
balanced whole.
The United States has not used proper judgment in its naval con-
struction. Glance down the list of ships. Practically every class of vessel,
with the exception of battleships which have been built under a continuous
program, has been constructed as a craze. Our armored cruisers, our Denver
class; six, eight, or ten vessels of a type built at one time and nothing again
for years. We are mad now for cruisers. We may get them but our fleet
will be weak in some other point. Would it not be better to build even a
few of each class, capital ship, carrier, cruiser, mine layer, destroyer, leader,
submarine, gunboat, but have modern examples of each type represented
in the feet?
Captain Taussig mentions that at replacement time "the decision will
have to be made as to whether the conditions warrant new construction to be
battleships or battle cruisers, or both.” Later on, a footnote on page 1130
gives particulars of the new Rodney class, stating that "the unusual design of
these ships leads to supposition that they may be intended for use as fleet
flagships.” Possibly it would be wise for the American Navy to utilize its
allowance of capital ships as follows: One fleet flagship combining high
speed, a few heavy guns, moderate armor and deck space for airplanes; four
battle cruisers for the scouting fleet; one battle fleet flagship and three
divisions of three ships each representing the present battleship, heavily
armored and carrying the largest possible number of guns at a moderate
speed.
Captain Taussig's article is interesting but it appears that many of his
conclusions are needlessly excessive. It is, however, a possible foundation
upon which to raise a continuing building policy for the Navy.
Limitations of Aircraft in Naval Warfare
(See page 746, May, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
LIEUTENANT F. W. WEAD, U. S. Navy.--I have read Lieutenant Com-
mander Ballou's article on “Limitations of Aircraft” which appeared in the


  p. 1746 (#678)                      #


1746
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
May number of the PROCEEDINGS with a great deal of interest. I cannot
but disagree with him in many particulars, nor but feel that he makes a
very poor case for aviation. In discussing this article with Lieutenant
Commander Ballou he informed me that it was primarily written as an
argument against the "separate air service” and against relinquishing the
battleship in favor of aircraft. In many points, however, his case is made
as clearly and specifically against naval aviation as it exists and will con-
tinue to exist, as it is against any other form of aviation. I am sure
that many of his statements are in error and that they require further
comment and correction. Any discussion based on a superficial knowledge
of aviation material and methods is dangerous. Saneness and lack of
sensationalism, however, are certainly desirable. His conclusions are well
known facts and his attitude in regard to the United Air Force controversy
and toward the aircraft versus battleship argument are accepted by most
well informed persons who have given the matter thought, except extreme
radicals. No one can feel that the battleship is any longer on the defensive
or can doubt that sea power is a primary necessity in our national defense. I
am sure that Lieutenant Commander Ballou has convinced everyone that he
personally shares this opinion to the nth degree. It is equally necessary,
however, that facts be not distorted in such a manner as to have an improper
influence on the uninformed, particularly now, closely following a serious
crisis and while naval aviation is apparently making great strides in close
harmony with the fleet each day. Our present attitude should rather be to
insure that aircraft are given every possible chance to prove their capabilities.
Lieutenant Commander Ballou draws a great many lessons from the
operations of aircraft during the late war and from them reasons that
operations in the next war will be subject to similar limitations. He
neglects entirely the fact that naval aviation is 99 per cent a post-war
development; that the material and methods in use now were not, in 1914
to 1917, even thought of; and he casts aside the tremendous progress which
has been made in personnel and in all phases of aviation activities. In
reliability of aircraft engines, decreased fuel consumption, lower weight
per horsepower, increased greater speed, increased useful load, auxiliary
installations, suitability of arrangement for specific tasks, ruggedness, greater
climb, and in all other details of performance, serviceability, and usage
advances are made from month to month and the net progress since the
war has been tremendous.
He states that the only progress so far as bombing is concerned is in
the increased bomb load which has been obtained in new aircraft and
neglects the development work which has gone on in bomb sights and
bombs and in personnel and methods. His quotation from Admiral Sims'
book that we had 500 airplanes operating when the Armistice was signed
in 1918 requires more thorough analysis than he gives it. Practically all
of these 500 planes were utilized in training and for anti-submarine patrol,
and, as Admiral Sims states, their primary function was the location of
submarines and not destruction, destruction being left to surface craft oper-


  p. 1747 (#679)                      #

1925]
1747
Discussion
ating in the vicinity for that purpose. He states that only one submarine
was sunk and makes no mention of how many submarines were sighted.
Moreover, the bombs and equipment carried by such planes were very crude
and of small size and were not entirely suitable for anti-submarine work;
bombing was a new and little developed art, and aircraft and engines re-
quired frequent overhauls and repairs.
One must agree with Lieutenant Commander Ballou in his statement
that a navy is essential to the operation of aircraft in numbers at any
distant point. No one can at this time tell, however, whether this function
of the fleet will become its primary mission or not. While this may not
appear possible at this time it is well within the realm of possibility and
infinitely more capable of actual execution than the radical view of con-
ducting a war by air alone. I fail to see, however, by what logic he
derives the statement that "if aircraft must be put on carriers to bring them
into action or if they must get their fuel supply from surface ships they
have been relegated definitely to the sporadic raiding activities of an inferior
fleet.” To me it seems to make little difference whether aircraft are capable
of flying 2,000 miles in order to reach their objective or whether they must
be launched from a carrier 200 miles away. With aircraft of 4,000 miles
radius we might possibly begin to consider the value of sending out large
unsupported bombing attacks in strength. Until that time we must have a
navy to place and maintain the carriers in a striking position. Bombing and
torpedo plane attacks are a distinct augmentation of the striking strength
of any fleet, either superior or inferior, and are not defensive weapons but
strictly offensive, and will assist in winning wars even though they are
admittedly not a substitute for sea power. The main uses of naval aircraft
are offensive and auxiliary. Their defensive use is apparently limited to
protective screening against aircraft, submarines, and light forces.
That an aircraft cannot sink a battleship because it cannot carry enough
fuel is unbelievable. The fuel required depends entirely on the relative loca-
tion. An army is useless fighting power unless it can be properly placed and
so is a navy or any other form of fighting strength. If enough aircraft can
carry enough fuel to reach a battleship they can certainly sink it, and
“enough” may require a fifty mile radius or may require one of 5,000 miles.
In discussing the value of bombing planes with the fleet, Lieutenant Com-
mander Ballou entirely neglects the balance in various types of planes which
present fleet plans prescribe. He makes no consideration whatsoever of the
defensive gun power of a bombing formation against fighting planes, which
is considerable. He does not consider that every bombing attack will be
accompanied by protective fighting plane formations and he further indicates
that all of the enemy fighting planes will be ideally concentrated in one
spot ready to pounce upon the bombing attack when it occurs. Nothing
could be less logical. Fighting planes available in any fleet will be assigned
to specific tasks which will require their presence in somewhat separated
locations. While concentration of fighting planes may be effected in order
to repel a bombing attack in force, the advantage of surprise lies entirely
with the bomber.


  p. 1748 (#680)                      #

· 1748
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Bombing planes can attack from any direction and at any altitude.
Lieutenant Commander Ballou's "one point in space" is misleading and is
true only for any specific altitude and direction. Torpedo planes using
curve fire may attack an enemy from any direction within torpedo range.
His description of the placing of a "creeping or ladder barrage of bursting
shells to make odds against arriving rather heavy" is fantastic and is not
sustained by past experience. At this time no entirely satisfactory method
of anti-aircraft fire-control has been developed and the fleet is at present
in the throes of considerable experimentation in this regard. It may be
accepted as a fact that the defense of a fleet against aircraft must rest
upon fighting planes within the fleet. Anti-aircraft guns should be pro-
vided and experimented with until the best possible results are obtained.
Inherent limitations will, however, render them always a secondary means
of fleet defense against aircraft. His statement that "from the moment
an airplane is sighted the path it must travel to reach its striking
point is known” is absolutely in error. If he can produce any method by
which the path of a bombing or torpedo plane attack led by a competent
leader can be predetermined he will confer a tremendous favor upon the
fire control experts of our fleet.
With proper development of bomb sights which have been under design
for the past five years and with proper training of crews over moving
targets, it is believed that the accuracy of bombing will increase to approxi-
mately 50 per cent of hits on a capital ship. The present bomb sights in use
are cruder than the old open sights used on guns, and while a stabilized
sight is essential present sights can be considerably refined in structural
details alone. Lieutenant Commander Ballou evidently assumes that we are
going into the next war under exactly the same conditions in which we came
out of the last one.
His remarks in regard to the limitation of weather likewise show lack
of appreciation of facts gained in experience. Radio direction and aerial
navigation in its advanced phases have been developed almost entirely since
the war; chances which would not be taken in peace time become an
absolute necessity in war time. In the past ten years we have developed
planes more suitable for work in all sorts of weather, including fog, rain,
snow, and darkness, and pilots have obtained much experience in operating
under adverse conditions. Aircraft landing in heavy seas will probably
be lost. No difficulty in launching them from carriers or catapults in heavy
weather obtains. A commander-in-chief, in weighing any such situation,
would compare the value of the serial reconnaissance, observation, or bomb-
ing or torpedo work to be carried out with the subsequent loss of planes
involved. The work can be executed if of greater value, than the risk
incurred. In any event, it is extremely improbable that our next war will
be fought in the Straits of Dover, and the weather conditions in that area
will probably have little effect on those in the Pacific or elsewhere.
It is true that bombers dispose of their load at one release, i.e., "one
shot in the locker"; this shot, however, is far from being expelled from a


  p. 1749 (#681)                      #

1925]
1749
Discussion
pea-shooter, and, after all, the damaging effect accomplished is the primary
factor, whether it be accomplished by one blow or by several. This method
is not a necessity and when more than one bomb is carried they may be
released individually. Simultanecus release is, however, more efficient
from the destruction standpoint.
Bombing is not comparable to gun fire in that spotting or corrections
are needed. Each bombing problem must be based upon a complete solution
of existing conditions at the time. When these conditions remain absolutely
unchanged "spotting" may be of some value. Conditions, however, will
not remain unchanged for two successive runs in time of war. This applies
to the altitude speed, and position of the airplane, the force and direction of
the wind between the ground and the bombing airplane, and the course and
speed of the enemy ship.
Lieutenant Commander Ballou's statement that seagoing aircraft that
can be stowed on a carrier and take off on the length of the fight deck
cannot be of sufficient size to carry more than one torpedo or one bomb of
a size sufficient to injure a dreadnaught also is capable of some explanation.
If such airplanes can be produced elsewhere, and without doubt they can be,
they can be utilized on a carrier very readily. Carriers steaming into the
wind at 30 knots with an actual wind of 10 knots produce a wind of 40
knots over the carrier deck. This in itself is almost sufficient for flight and a
very short run is required to get into the air. In addition, a rapid adjustable
and detachable catapult which hooks into the under carriages of
heavily loaded planes is under development for "boosting” them into the
air and has been used. This problem is so near solution that further dis-
cussion is unnecessary.
The question of wing spread is not believed to be vital, as it appears
probable that new carriers will be or can be designed to accommodate any
airplane with wings folded which it appears desirable to build from a design
standpoint.
The statement that bombers can never become an efficient or dependable
weapon because they are out of action after firing one salvo is equally
inaccurate. If that one salvo carries with it sufficient destructive effect to
accomplish the purpose for which it is intended, it seems to me that from a
standpoint of efficiency it is much higher than a naval gun which may
require thirty-five or forty salvos to accomplish the same result.
I will grant that from an analysis of past bombing results many of
Lieutenant Commander Ballou's statements in regard to the accuracy and
possibilities of bombing may appear true. He lacks, however, that knowledge
of present experimental work and development with bomb sights which
lead even the most conservative of those who are familiar with it to feel
sure that the bomber as a weapon is bound to become a thing of precision
and accuracy.
He knows of nothing more helpless than a bombing plane which has
delivered its attack, when, as a matter of fact, bombers are much more
capable of self-defense the moment their bomb load is released in that they
are free to maneuver, and can take the shortest way home.


  p. 1750 (#682)                      #


1750
[1925
Discussion
The mental hazard in aircraft work in time of war is certainly not greater
than that encountered in other weapons and in writing about the mental
hazard of war-time bombing one should in fairness include the mental
hazard in war-time fighting from surface ships or submarines.
It is believed that the statement that the airplane is the most expensive
weapon, considered from a standpoint of damaging effect against any
target, be it enemy fleet or shore bases, will not hold water under careful
analysis. This item would require thorough research and a detailed state-
ment regarding the peace-time cost of the airplane and battleship or other
destructive arm, cost of the personnel involved, interest on the capital
invested, annual cost of fuel, average life and other matters, balanced
against the destructive effect obtainable, and is so complicated that no definite
figure could be reached which would be satisfactory to everyone.
Detailed information in regard to the equipment of the Zeppelins which
were scheduled to be used in Jutland is not at hand. It may be assured,
however, from the results of air raids over London that these aircraft did
not carry bombs of any great size or in any great amount. The majority
of their useful load was taken up with fuel, and the value of these Zeppelins
to the German fleet for any purpose whatsoever except that of observation
may be considered absolutely nil.
Lieutenant Commander Ballou takes entirely too many lessons from the
late war without consideration of conditions as they existed and without
apparent knowledge of new material, new methods, and experience which
has been gained since the war and with little conception of the uses of
aircraft in future naval engagements.
His “steady pressure by which wars are won” in reality consists of a
series of striking blows against the enemy and the length of time such
pressure must be applied depends entirely upon the effectiveness and striking
force of the blows. The greatest amount of such destructive strength that
can be applied at any one point is bound to come, to a certain extent, through
aviation in the form of bombing and torpedo attacks which now have a
striking range of some 200 miles with a 2,000 pound destructive load and
the great advantages of high speed and surprise.


  p. 1751 (#683)                      #



  p. 1752 (#684)                      #


10,000 H.P., DOUBLE-ACTING DIESEL ENGINE FOR THE M.S. "AsturiAS"


  p. 1753 (#685)                      #

PROFESSIONAL NOTES
PREPARED BY
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER H. W. UNDERWOOD, U. S. Navy
FROM JULY 7 TO AUGUST.7
1753
1754
1756
1758
GENERAL ARRANGEMENT
GREAT BRITAIN
Future Capital Ships..................
Unemployment ......
An Airship Offensive......
The Air Ministry's Exhibits at Wembley..
FRANCE
Impressions of French Sea Power........
French Navy Notes..........
UNITED STATES
“Old Ironsides" Campaign........
Hawaii's Naval Needs.....
1762
1764
....................................
1704
1766
1767
AVIATION
Commercial Air Transport......
Civil and Military Aircraft......
The Uses of Water Recovery....
1768
1769
1769
...
1773
1773
1775
1775
.......
177
1776
1780
ENGINEERING
The Motor Passenger Liner “Asturias”.........
Supercharging ......
Proposed German Admiralty Rotorships...
Motorship Performances (“Aorangi”)..
German Diesel Engine Practice........
ORDNANCE
Gunnery in the Battle of Jutland.
MERCHANT MARINE
World's Shipbuilding Touches Lowest Level Since War.....
The World's Merchant Shipping ......
Merchant Ship Subsidy Systems ........
Ford's Bid for Scrap Ships...........
Scrapping Shipping Board Ships......
MISCELLANEOUS
Submarine Cruisers .....
CURRENT NAVAL AND PROFESSIONAL PAPERS
1782
1785
1787
1790
1791
..................
1701
1792
1798


  p. 1754 (#686)                      #

1754
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
GREAT BRITAIN
Future Capital Ships
The Army, Navy and Air Force Gazette, 4 July, 1925.-Will the Nelson
and Rodney, which are shortly to take the water on the Tyne and the
Mersey, prove to be the last battleships of large displacement to be built
for any power? It is rash to speculate on such a matter, but the indica-
tions at present certainly point in this direction. It is well to recall the
circumstances under which these vessels were put in hand. The Washington
Conference of 1921-22 proposed a complete ten-year naval holiday from
battleship construction, but Japan stood out for the completion of her new
battleship Mutsu, which gave her two post-Jutland ships of the latest
design. America then insisted on completing two more, the Colorado and
West Virginia, and, to maintain the status quo, Great Britain, which had
stopped work on four new battleships at the start of the conference, was
authorized to build two others. Now, although the Washington Treaty
is to last until the end of 1936, or for another eleven and a half years, the
powers are not bound by it to suspend battleship construction for so long.
France and Italy have the right to resume such construction in 1927, and
to lay down in that year ships which will come into service in 1930-31 to
replace the Jean Bart and Dante Alighieri, respectively. Much will doubtless
depend upon whether they exercise this right.
Three years ago, the right to build a new battleship was offered to the
French Government by the loss of their ship, the France. They took no
advantage of the clause in the treaty which permits of the replacement of
capital ships or aircraft-carriers accidentally destroyed, and the precedent
may commend itself in 1927. After all, each power is only authorized to
lay down one ship in that year and the use of such an isolated unit would
raise some awkward problems. Much better, it would seem, would be the
construction instead of, say, three 10.000-ton cruisers, or six flotilla leaders
similar to the fine trio of Italian ships now visiting the Baltic. Supposing
France and Italy take this view, their action will not be without its in-
fluence on the other signatory powers, Britain, America, and Japan, as to
the decisions they will make in 1931, when they are allowed to resume
battleship construction. Another conference before that date might well
confirm and consolidate what would by then have become the general ten-
dency.
It is only a question of agreement between the powers before what we now
call the cruiser becomes the capital ship of the future. As Admiral Sir
William Henderson has often argued, a 10,000-ton cruiser could perform
all the functions of a battleship, provided that the nations had agreed that
vessels of larger tonnage should not be built. From the standpoints of
personnel and operations, there can be no question that two or three cruisers
would be preferable to one battleship. As regards the strategic aspect, too,
Admiral Henderson has pointed out that fleets should be constituted to fit
the probable theaters in which they may have to act. This points to the
elimination of the big ship, and the use of smaller, simpler, and more
mobile vessels. The naval lesson of the war, he affirms, is that the con-
struction and organization of the fleets was such that they could only be
used to advantage in narrow waters. But, the next move is with the
politicians if a return to smaller dimensions is to be brought about, for the
powers must agree collectively before any one of them dares take the risk
which failure to include the largest and most powerful vessels in their battle
squadron would involve.


  p. 1755 (#687)                      #

1925]
1755
Professional Notes
Unemployment
The Engineer, 3 July, 1925.—So much has already been said about unem-
ployment, so many people have studied it profoundly and so many cures or
palliatives have been examined or tested that it may seem scarcely worth
while to discuss it again. Yet, the debate in the House of Commons on
Monday last invites our consideration if only on account of the honest and
admirable speech which was delivered by the Prime Minister. Mr. Baldwin
does not suffer from the illusion that unemployment can be stopped by
Parliament, and he made an effort, which his opponents sought to defeat,
to raise the whole subject out of the political cockpit. Whatever politicians
may think of a Prime Minister who hesitates to make claims which he knows
he will find difficulty in maintaining; who refuses to take advantage of the
speeches and failures of his predecessors in office, and who seeks to elevate
a wrangle into a debate, all who are intimate with the industries of the
country can appreciate the necessity of a clear statement of facts free from
political bias and from vague promises of performances which history has
shown over and over again that Parliament is unable to effect. Unemploy-
ment is no new thing. Ever since the industrial era began there have been
recurrent periods of bad trade, and we are not aware that in a single in-
stance the action of any government in the world has retarded their arrival
or hastened their departure. All that Parliament can do, apart from the
execution of relief works, is to facilitate trading conditions. It cannot
produce a demand that does not exist, and, as we have seen in the case of
housing, it is powerless to increase output in the face of the opposition of
an industry.
There are two aspects from which the depressed position of the trade of
the country may be regarded. One is that it is not our own fault and the
other that it is. It is impossible at the present day to say quite definitely
which point of view should be taken. In the familiar ten-year trade cycles
it was fairly safe to assert that the country was no more responsible for the
hollows in the waves than it was for the crests. Influences beyond the con-
trol of any single country were at work to make or mar us. Even the
heavens conspired for our advantage or distress. A bad harvest, a bad cot-
ton crop, a disastrous wool clip brought the purchasing power of the world
down and trade suffered a set-back. On the other hand, fine weather fol-
lowed by plentiful harvests of all kinds filled the pockets of purchasers and
trade abounded. In how far the conditions of the present slump resemble
those of normal trade cycles we cannot say, but this much at least we have
reason to believe, that this country is not an isolated sufferer and that the
trade of other European countries is not as rosy as it is sometimes made
to appear. It is at least possible that we are in the trough of an ordinary
depression to which there is added a secondary depression of about equal
magnitude peculiar to certain industries of this country. If this is the
case we may expect, in the course of a year or two, recovery from part
of our complaint-from that part which we call the normal cyclical de-
pression. Shall we recover from the remaining portion? We speak now
only of the industries with which we are concerned, the industries which
for the most part are those suffering most severely at the present time.
Mr. Baldwin spoke in admirable terms of the necessity of allying science
with manufactures. Of the importance of that alliance it is impossible
to speak too highly. It is an absolute essential to progress; in its absence
we cannot hope to compete with other countries; but we must not fall
into the easy mistake of supposing that such an alliance is all that is
needed. Science is the beginning of industry, not its continuance. The
industry must be carried on by the factory and its organization, and we


  p. 1756 (#688)                      #

1756
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
believe that it is just there that the weakness of this old manufacturing
country will be found. We have, it is true, many fine new works and ship-
yards; but we have also a great many that are antiquated, and we are con-
tinually handicapped by the effort to combine modern scientific processes and
methods with works which were built for the methods of half a century
and more ago. We have, particularly during the past few years, seen
examples of capital expenditure on a magnificent scale, but on the whole it
must be admitted that British manufacturers have been more chary about
the modernization of works than America or Germany. As a matter of
fact, for a long period we found it profitable to adhere to the old plants.
Labor was relatively cheap, our markets were established, and we could
carry on very well against such opposition as we had to meet. But, a
great change has taken place. Not only have we to meet much greater
competition from countries outside the empire which have hastened to in-
crease their engineering production, but we are confronted with the fact
that in several lands within the empire engineering is advancing so rapidly
that the old dependence on the mother country is disappearing. Searched
to its foundation, the problem resolves itself into this: Can we hope,
with the prospect of foreign trade steadily diminishing, to support a popu-
lation of forty-five millions in greater comfort than a smaller population
enjoyed ten years ago? We fear that there is but one answer to it.
Something, indeed, might be done by the rejuvenation of old works and
the general improvement of industries, but unless we can get more foreign
trade than we had before the war-an unlikely consummation—the prob-
ability is that we shall find it impossible to support so large a population as
at present. Economists tell us that with the coming of the industrial era
in Great Britain the population rapidly increased because means of support
were easy to find. We may assume that, by the converse process, it will
decrease automatically when means of support diminishes.
There is, we admit, no helpful policy in that philosophic point of view.
It takes us nowhere. Is there nothing that can be done now? nothing
that will delay the decrease of our population? We agree with Mr.
Baldwin that the government can do but little and that industries must
help themselves, yet as we believe one of the first steps to be the modern-
ization of antiquated factories, we were glad to observe his statement that
the government was prepared to give facilities for the "modernizing and
repairing of plant in works." There are many, many works in the kingdom
that would do well to take advantage of that offer. But, as we have sug-
gested, the improvement of factories only takes us part of our road. The
rest of it lies by a harder path. With all of our factories set in order,
with science firmly allied to industry, we might support our present popu-
lation in the standard of comfort which it enjoyed in pre-war days. It
is doubtful whether, in the face of decreasing foreign demand for our
goods and increasing foreign competition, we can hope to maintain a popu-
lation of forty-five millions at the standard of life which is now demanded.
Foreign trade now, as always, is the key to the situation. We may tempt
it back by lowering our costs of production, which, in the long run, means
lowering the standard of living; or, alternatively, if we insist on maintain-
ing the present standard of living, we must be content with a smaller
volume of foreign trade and a smaller population. Whither that policy
would ultimately lead us we do not propose to discuss.
An Airship Offensive
By Admiral Sir W. H. Henderson, The Evening Post, 10 July, 1925.—
The minister for air, Sir Samuel Hoare, at Pulham the other day, made


  p. 1757 (#689)                      #

1925)
1757
Professional Notes
statements in regard to the value of airships which require serious examina-
tion if the public is not to be misled and vast sums of money spent before
it is too late. The criticism of airship policy which Sir Samuel Hoare
derides is something more than that of "timid people who dislike great
experiments that may lead to big changes in established ideas."
It is based rather on principles of which the air minister appears to be
completely unaware, principles which a sailor, from his training, can
appreciate. A word of explanation and of protest from an old seaman
may not, therefore, be out of place.
The escape of R-33 was simply due to the fact that the gale abated
in time to enable her, with the amount of petrol she luckily had on board,
combined with pluck and good management, to crawl home before all of
her petrol was expended. Had the gale lasted but a very little longer
she would, in all probability, have been lost.
To a landsman or a sailor the movements of the air are felt as, and
designated as, wind; they interfere but little with transport either on
land or at sea, for in case of necessity natural shelter is almost always
available; a well found ship can always hold her own in open water.
This is not so with aircraft, and is, therefore, the underlying fallacy
concerning lighter-than-air (that is, airship) schemes. An airship afloat,
immersed in the air, is in a current which carries her with it whatever its
direction. She does not feel any wind except that which may be caused
by her own propulsion through it. Only by being able to fix her position by
astronomical observation, by directionals, by bearings of objects on the
land (including, as suggested, enormously powerful lighthouses at frequent
intervals) can she be aware of the direction in which she is being taken;
and if these fail her, as they will do, especially when over the sea, she
can have no knowledge of her position and drift.
Sailors have to do with currents, but the currents of the oceans and seas
are practically constant, are well known, are charted, and are exceedingly
slight compared with those of the air, which may range up to 100 miles an
hour. Even in only fresh breezes they average from fifteen to twenty miles,
and always vary constantly both in direction and speed.
An airship cannot hope to hold her own unless she has a speed superior
to that of the current of air against which she may have to proceed.
The inability of R-33 to make any stand against a current of 45-55 knots
has again demonstrated the necessity of a higher speed, and 70 knots is
aimed at in the new government airships, necessitating craft of 5,000,000
cubic feet capacity.
These unwieldy monsters will require for shelter, in place of the an-
chorages nature provides for ships, huge artificial hangars (it was stated
that one to take the R-II would be large enough to contain both St.
Paul's Cathedral and the Nelson Monument), enormous mooring masts,
directional stations, lighthouses, factories, and armies of groundmen always
ready, scattered not only along, but outside of their routes. In fact, air-
ships need artificial provision in every single respect to enable them to work
at all.
I see it is proposed to make a beginning by the establishment of an
aerodrome at Colchester, which it was stated at a meeting of the town
council “would mean the expenditure of something like a half million
of money and that establishment in Colchester of about 500 men.” For
what purposes ? None that can ever pay commercially, for not only will the
cost of airships and their paraphernalia be prohibitive, but their available
weight-carrying capacity is exceedingly small, and when the weights
of the hull, envelope, engine, necessary ballast, fuel, crew, etc., are deducted
from the total lifting capacity, little remains over to afford any paying


  p. 1758 (#690)                      #

1758
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
proposition, even were safety and reliability not the essential disiderata.
One has to remember the disasters which happened to the eight Zeppelins
in October, 1917 to R-34 in 1921, and the French airship Dirmude, which,
in December, 1923, was carried away in a current and lost with the fifty-
three people who were on board her; and, in addition to the ever-present
danger of atmospheric currents, there is the risk of thunderstorms. In
“The Distribution of Thunderstorms Over the Globe" (Geophysical Memoirs
No. 24), Air Ministry Meteorological Office, Mr. C. E. P. Brooks, MSc.,
estimates that 44,000 occur daily throughout the world, mainly in the
tropics, the Java Sea being the worst region.
Lightning is very dangerous to airships should there be any escape of
hydrogen. Those who note these things will recall that the British airship
N.S.-II was struck by lightning off Norfolk in 1919, and fell into the
sea, a blazing wreck.
An airship disregards the first principles of transport, which are that a
ship or any other means of transport must have a power of motion of its
own, greatly in excess of the modicum in or on which it moves. She is
consequently only a fine-weather craft, capable of making trips in selected
weather, or for use for reconnaissance on selected days from some few
definite positions. That this is the case was shown over and over again
by the Zeppelins during the war.
The Air Ministry's Exhibits at Wembley
The Engineer, 17 July, 1925.-To those willing to seek out and study the
Air Ministry's exhibits at the British Empire Exhibition, a feast of great
scientific interest can safely be promised. We do not refer particularly
to the examples of full-sized airplanes shown in the Palace of Housing
and Transport, for neither the service nor the civil machines exhibited are
particularly modern, and are staged more for the education of the general
public than for the attention of technical people. Nor do we reier es-
pecially to the series of airplane models shown in the British Government
Pavilion. Individually, these models are very beautiful examples of mini-
ature mechanical construction, and collectively they present a striking syn-
opsis of the evolution of aircraft from the early Roe triplane and the
strangely grotesque Cody machine to such fairly recent productions as the
10,000-horsepower Avro, Aldershot and the triple-engined Handley Page,
Hamilton. But, here again the interest is popular rather than technical.
Opposite these models is to be found, among other similar exhibits, a
tableau, arresting alike in its artistic realism and in its effect on the blood,
illustrating the slaughter of the retreating Turks by British and Australian
bombers in a gorge of the Wady-Fara, on September 21, 1918. It is
an almost over-grim demonstration of the efficacy of aerial forces against
troops on the ground when too panic-stricken to defend themselves, and
it is with a feeling approaching relief that we turn to an examination of
the more peaceful uses of aircraft and of the instruments and devices as-
sociated with their design and operation.
It has been argued, even by some intimately associated with the develop-
ment of aircraft, that the “conquest" of the air has not benefited humanity.
On balance, we have no doubt, airplanes and airships have so far produced
more of evil than of good. The benefits obtainable from civil aerial trans-
port-to some they still even require demonstration-are not so great as
to compensate for the suffering and destruction which military aircraft
have caused, and will undoubtedly continue to cause, in warfare. Aero-
nautics, however, almost from the first, was given a military trend and,
possibly to its own misfortune, was at a critical stage in its development


  p. 1759 (#691)                      #

1925)
1759
Professional Notes
when circumstances arose which compelled attention to be exclusively de-
voted to its application to war purposes. While the military side of aviation
will probably always be the dominant one, it is not to be supposed that
the transport of passengers and goods represents the only important appli-
cation on the civil side. Rapid and important developments, as a section
of the Air Ministry's exhibit shows, are now proceeding in a field of applica-
tion, and photographic surveying of large tracts of land, to which aircraft
are peculiarly and exclusively adapted.
It would seem a fairly simple matter to take a series of photographs from
the air of contiguous areas of land and to mount them side by side to
form a map of the whole. Actually, it is not easy. In fact, to derive any
really useful delineation of the land over a large surface in this way requires
a considerable amount of mathematical work as a basis. Two methods are
available. For rapid survey work not demanding a great degree of refine-
ment, one oblique photograph taken from the air may be made to serve
the whole area. This method has been extensively applied in Canada. Pro-
vided two datum points fixed on the land surface by ground surveyors
are included in the photograph, the oblique view can be plotted as an or-
dinary vertical map projection by ruling a series of convergent grid lines
on the photograph and transferring the intersections onto a map blank ruled
with a corresponding rectangular grid. A development of this process con-
sists of employing an instrument of the camera lucida type. In this
device the oblique photograph is obliquely projected in such a way that
the one obliquely cancels the other, thus permitting the rectangular map to
be traced directly on the plane of projection.
For work requiring an increased degree of accuracy, a mosaic of photo-
graphs taken perpendicularly from the air is built up to form a complete
map. This process has been applied in a noteworthy instance to the map-
ping of the Irawaddy Delta which, consisting more or less of inaccessible
forest and swamp, does not lend itself readily or at all to ordinary ground
surveying. Working with this method the pilot flies back and forth along
parallel courses over the area to be surveyed, taking successive photographs
of the ground with a camera pointing vertically downwards. The camera
may be controlled by hand, but in some cases it is now operated auto-
matically by means of mechanism which varies the interval between the
exposures to suit the speed of the airplane.
The speed with which an aerial survey can be completed is one of its most
valuable features. In Canada the oblique photographic method has enabled
the first proofs of the finished map to be prepared for a large area in six
months' time, or in a fraction of the period which a ground surveyor
would take merely to make his field observations. Again, the detail revealed
by the photographic survey is very much greater than the ground surveyor,
chained it may be to transport by a canoe, can hope to record without
much wearisome journeying. In Canada it has been found possible to dis-
tinguish between the different classes of trees, deciduous and otherwise,
standing on the ground surveyed from the air. In that country, too, the
aerial survey organization works in conjunction with the forest fire-fighting
services, notifying an outbreak and assisting in the transport of the fire-
fighters from their base to the seat of conflagration. It is of interest to
note that our own ordnance survey has now decided to use aerial surveying
as a means of revising the twenty-five-inches-to-the-mile ordnance maps of
this country.
Of all the devices connected with aerial surveying which are exhibited by
the Air Ministry at Wembley, chief scientific interest must be accorded to
the "camera plastica," a device developed by the combined Admiralty, War
Office, and Air Ministry Air Survey Committee, and made by Cooke,


  p. 1760 (#692)                      #

1760
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Troughton and Sims, Ltd., of York. This appliance makes use of the
anaglyph principle, whereby two slightly displaced views of an object, one
in red and the other in green, are given an appearance of relief when
viewed through a green and a red glass. In the camera plastica a pair of
such stereoscopic views is projected, one by red and the other by green light,
on to a horizontal plotting board, which may be raised or lowered through
known scaled distances. If the red and green lights are set to flicker
rapidly and alternately, the image cast on the plotting board flickers as a
whole in unison. At certain points on the image, however, no flickering
is seen. At these points the red and the green rays intersect in the plane
of the plotting board. By raising or lowering the plotting board a dif-
ferent series of points becomes steady. Each series of steady points is
plotted and represents a contour line of the land being surveyed. The height
from contour line to contour line is read off from the scale attached to the
plotting table. Few, we think, will fail to agree with us in our view that
the camera plastica is a very beautiful instrument of considerable practical
promise.
Close to the aerial surveying section the visitor will find a large and
entertaining collection of ancient books, engravings, and other objects illus-
trating man's attempts at and thoughts about artificial flight from the time
of Bladud-a legendary king of Britain who 3,000 year ago attempted to
fly with wings on his shoulders, and killed himself by falling on the Temple
of Apollo in Trinovantum, or St. Paul's Cathedral in London, as we would
now call it—to the time of Cayley, Henson, and the other pioneers of
modern aeronautics. This exhibit was collected by Mr. J. E. Hodgson, a
well-known authority on aeronautical history, and both for its extent and
the manner in which it is arranged, deserves our consideration and praise.
In another part of the Government Building close to the series of model
airplanes to which we have referred above, a miniature wind tunnel in-
vites more than passing notice, especially if the visitor is allowed, as we
were, to operate it for himself. A wing section is exposed in the air
current and is connected by nine tubes from its top surface and by a like
number from the bottom to a series of eighteen separate water manometers
mounted side by side. The distribution of pressure on the underside of
the wing and the much more important distribution of suction on the upper
side and the manner in which these distributions alter as the wing is tilted
from zero incidence. up to the stalling angle are rendered visible in a
highly enlightened manner.
Passing into the Palace of Housing and Transport the visitor should
note the full sized reproduction of the tower of Croydon, from which,
with the aid of wireless telephony, the position of airplanes crossing to or
from the Continent is determined and their alighting and departure are
controlled. If he is fortunate he will head an actual message coming in
from an actual machine in flight, reporting its passage over some familiar
landmark, and will see the operator recording its position on a cork-faced
map by means of a small flag bearing the civil registration letters of the
machine.
Another exhibit relating to the navigation of airplanes, to which attention
should be given, is the duplicate of one of the six aerial lighthouses which
have now been erected on the continental route between Croydon and
Lympne. This lighthouse, the joint product of Chance Brothers and the
Gas Accumulator Company, is designed to operate without attention of any
kind for periods of six months or more. It has a range of visibility of
about thirty-five miles, a distance which is sufficient to enable a pilot flying
by night to pick up the second light before losing the first, and so on
throughout all six. The lighting up of the burner is controlled by a "sun-


  p. 1761 (#693)                      #

1925)
1761
Professional Notes
valve" on top of the lens work, the sensitiveness of the valve being ad-
justable so as to bring it into action at any desired degree of darkness.
The valve, we understand, is not sensitive to heavy clouds but would, or
could be made to, operate under the darkness of a really heavy thunder-
storm, Rotation of the light is effected by the pressure of the dissolved
acetylene gas on its way to the burner, and is therefore stopped and
started by the action of the sun valve. The automatic control of the ap-
paratus is even carried so far that should the gas mantle be broken or burnt
out in service it will be automatically replaced by a new one.
Aeronautics has undoubtedly caused the medical profession to look at
humanity from many new angles, so much so that the "air doctor” may
now be regarded as something of a specialist. Apart from the effects
produced on the human constitution by high altitudes, rapid speeds, sudden
accelerations and decelerations and other matters cognate to actual flight,
the medical officer attached to an aeronautical unit has to study the re-
action of those under his charge to movement in three dimensions. Until
this aspect of aeronautics was studied on a scientific basis its importance was
perhaps not realized by many, even among those closely connected with
aeronautics. All of the movements which we make in ordinary life call
for two-dimensional control, and after we have passed the babyhood stage,
no conscious effort is required for the coordination of our movements in
two planes; but when, as in flight, three-dimensional control is required,
good coordination comes naturally to a few individuals, can be acquired by
practice by others, and is apparently beyond the attainment of many. Such
would seem to be the lesson to be derived from the records obtained with
the Reid time reaction apparatus for testing pilots. This apparatus consists
of an airplane cockpit equipped with the usual means of controlling the
flying organs. The controls, however, instead of operating ailerons, ele-
vators, or rudders are connected to various electric lights on the dash-
board. The operations of banking, gliding, spinning and so forth are
indicated by the appearance of colored lights. Recovery is shown by the
appearance of three white lights, which mark the fact that the "airplane"
is Aying normally in all three dimensions. A tape-recording machine and
a chronometer are fitted to give a permanent record of the time taken by
the "pilot" to recover the normal flying altitude after it has been disturbed.
Many curious interesting facts have already been accumulated by the use
of this apparatus. Motor drivers and others accustomed to the control
of machinery usually show a short time reaction when their hands alone
are tested, although few or none are equally good with both hands. Foot
controls may also be good when tested separately, but even among the
best and most experienced airplane pilots a preference is nearly always
shown for turning to one side rather than to the other. When, however,
a combined foot and hand control is required, the entry of the third di-
mension upsets most people, and six or seven or more seconds may be
required to effect the coordination as compared with the tenth to a half
second for a really first-class born pilot. Those who sometimes feel a
certain sense of shame when they start at a sudden noise, may take consola-
tion from the fact that even the said born pilot will frequently show a
quick jump in his control curve when a Klaxon horn beneath the Reid
apparatus is sounded without warning. The height of the jump in the
curve is not, however, regarded as being of great importance. What is
examined is the after effect on the pilot-or patient, as it might be better to
call him. Whereas an ordinary being may show a widely "hunting” curve
for some time after being startled, the good pilot, the man born to fly, re-
covers very quickly and commonly gives an even better curve after than
before the disturbance.


  p. 1762 (#694)                      #

1762
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The Reid apparatus can be adjusted to represent anything from a light
scout which can only be flown in the normal attitude by the constant manipu-
lation of the controls to a heavy bombing machine which is inherently
stable. It is of great interest as a means of translating a man into a curve.
In its purely professional aspect its value lies in the fact that it enables
candidates for pilotship to be examined at the start of their career with
the object of determining whether there is any reasonable likelihood of their
becoming good pilots in a short time. It enables the hopeless case to be
eliminated at the outset without risking his life and those of others in an
actual machine. It reveals the deficiencies on which special attention should
be concentrated during the training of the embryo pilot, provides a means
of practicing with the object of improving a new or former pilot's per-
formance, and serves to indicate the particular type of machine which the
would-be pilot is best qualified by his natural aptitude to control.
FRANCE
Impressions of French Sea Power
By Hector C. Bywater, Baltimore Sun, 3 August, 1925.—Scenes of ex-
traordinary enthusiasm were witnessed at Cherbourg last Thursday when
President Doumergue reviewed the French fleet. Huge crowds of people,
many of whom had come from towns and villages some considerable dis-
tance inland, thronged the narrow streets of the quaint old port. Everyone
wanted a trip in the little steamers that took sight-seers around the fleet,
but these were unable to accommodate more than a tithe of the host and
the majority had to content themselves with a distant view of the fighting
ships, sixty of which lay at anchor in the roads.
I was fortunate enough to secure a passage in one of the first steamers
that went out to the fleet. As we steamed down the harbor guns began to
thunder from the batteries on the heights, for the presidential train had
just arrived at Cherbourg and the Chief Executive of the Republic was being
saluted with 101 guns. With him was a distinguished party of ministers,
senators, deputies, and officials.
I have already described in a cable to The Sun the principal events of the
day, such as the President's trip in a submarine (which, however, did not
submerge), his run in a destroyer at full speed and his visit to the arsenal,
where he drove the first rivet in the big submarine Redoubtable, a vessel of
some 3,000 tons and by far the largest underwater craft which France so
far has laid down.
As for the fleet itself, it was rather less imposing than one had expected.
Six battleships were there, but of these only four possess any degree of
fighting value. The old Voltaire and Diderot, in spite of their five funnels
and piled-up turrets, are wholly obsolete, and probably are kept only for
training purposes. The same is true of the armored cruisers that still
serve in the northern division, although they were built twenty years ago.
The two most powerful battleships, Province and Lorraine, compare as
to armament with the United States' New York and Texas, albeit they
are smaller and less well protected. Extensive modernization has completely
altered the appearance of these ships. Each is now fitted with a colossal
tripod mast, while the forefunnel has been raised and the tophamper in-
creased. Also, their big guns of 13.4-in. caliber have been modified to permit
of higher elevation, from 18° to 23°, and can now range up to 23,000 meters.
This change appears to have been tacitly approved by the other signatory
powers out of regard for the numerical weakness of the French battle fleet.
The Jean Bart, an older dreadnaught, mounting 12-in. guns, also has been
metamorphosed by bringing the two first funnels into one casing and fitting


  p. 1763 (#695)                      #

1925]
1763
Professional Notes
a tripod mast. Her sister ship, Paris, was present, but did not go out for
maneuvers with the rest of the fleet.
There was nothing between these big armor clads and the destroyers,
for the few light cruisers which France now owns were absent on blockade
duty along the Riff coast, and none of the five new ships building is ready to
hoist the pennant. Even the twenty-two destroyers present all dated from
the war or pre-war period and included a series of boats which once flew
the German flag. These, incidentally, looked the most powerful and busi-
nesslike of the lot.
But, it was the submarines that formed the real Pièce de résistance of
the display. Of these there were twenty-four of diverse types, among them
being the sister boats, Requin and Souffler, which have just been completed
at Cherbourg arsenal. It was from the deck of the Souffler that President
Doumergue reviewed the fleet, and the fact that he did so may signify
the unbounded faith which Frenchmen have in the deadly powers of the
underwater arm. As is well known, these craft constitute more than half
of the 120 new naval units which France has built and authorized since
the treaty. The Requin class are large boats of 1,130 tons, carrying one
gun and sixteen torpedoes. In outline they resemble the later German
U-boats, although French experts indignantly repudiate any hint of in-
spiration from the designers of hated Bocheland.
France hopes in the not remote future to command a fleet of 100 sub-
marines, by means of which and the cooperation of fifty big destroyers and
swarms of aircraft she looks forward to dominating the Mediterranean.
Very possibly she will do it. In any case, those waters will be decidedly
unhealthy for a hostile dreadnaught when the new French mosquito fleet is
in being.
A dozen sloops and mine sweepers of no great military value rounded off
the Cherbourg armada. Taken as a whole, its fighting power was not
appreciably above that of a single battle squadron of the British or Ameri-
can Navies, although the French crowds who cheered with so much ferver
seemed blissfully ignorant of the fact.
But, the future sea power of the republic is not to be measured by this
somewhat nondescript array of ships. A few years hence their place will
have been taken by twice the number of new craft, all designed on the basis
of war experience. Meanwhile, the existing fleet is used as a school for
training the officers and men who will handle the fleet of tomorrow. It
puts in a great deal of time at sea practicing battle evolutions, carrying out
gunnery and torpedo exercises and maneuvering in all conditions of weather.
What impressed me most during this visit to Cherbourg was the change
which has taken place in the French naval personnel. Having known the
pre-war navy fairly well, the contrast between the human element of 1914
and that of 1925 is, to me, quite remarkable. The typical French sea officer
of pre-war days was a scientist first and a sailor afterward, but his suc-
cessor of today typifies the happy mean between the two.
Ignoring differences in uniform, these bronzed, smooth-faced men might
be mistaken anywhere for British or American naval officers. They are, as
an English critic put it, "as keen as mustard" on their jobs. Their hearts
are obviously in their profession, of which they are intensely proud, and
they trust, and are trusted by their men. Of course there are exceptions,
but the old type of dreamy officer, who was more interested in Voltaire
and transcendental mathematics than in the manual of seamanship, seems
to me well-nigh extinct.
As with the executives, so with the enlisted men. These, as always,
are drawn mainly from the hardy seafaring communtities of Normandy and
Brittany, but they have improved enormously in smartness and bearing. It
is true that there is a malcontent minority which furtively distributes Com-


  p. 1764 (#696)                      #

1764
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
munist literature through the mess decks and is able, now and again, to
stir up a mutinous spirit among the greener recruits; but I am told on high
authority that the discipline and morale of the enlisted personnel in the
mass are beyond criticism, and the fleeting impression I was able to obtain
bears out this statement. It would certainly be foolish to ignore or minimize
the French Navy as a factor in the present and future balance of world
power.
French Navy Notes
The Naval and Military Record, 15 July, 1925.—The Riff War is taking
a disquieting turn, not only for France but also for Great Britain, that is
the greatest Moslem Power and stands to lose the most if Abdel Krim has
his own way. France is paying a terrible price for not understanding
sooner that Spain was fighting against the pugnacious Riff mountaineers
the battle of Europe. Gross and much regretted was the blunder of Premier
Herriot, when thoughtlessly and for reasons of internal politics he refused
the Moroccan collaboration Primo de Riveira offered him: greater still
will be the mistake of England if she fails to see in time the warnings on the
wall. Colonial warfare is assuming new shape and portent, since Germany,
having lost her own colonies in the mad 1914 venture, decided that her
victors should likewise lose theirs. Abdel Krim's well equipped army in the
Riff is merely a wing of the great Sovietic forces that are attacking France
at home with success.
The 1925 shipbuilding program has just been voted by the Senate, after
an animated and interesting debate. It will mean a substantial addition
to the French naval list, although only 35,000,000 francs are to be spent this
year on the units to be laid down, which means that the main progress will
be made next year. The 10,000-ton cruiser will be, but for a few minor
ameliorations, similar to the Duquesne and Tourville (185 meters long, 19
wide, 6.30 meter draught, 130,000 h.p., 35 knots, eight guns of 8-in. in axial
twin turrets of special anti-gas design, eight anti-aerial quick-firers firing
bomb shells of wide explosive radius, four triple torpedo tubes copied from
English types, and two light scouting seaplanes to carry small bombs). They
will be fine ships, no doubt, but on paper, at least, inferior to the larger
10,000-ton Italian Trente and Trieste, these being longer, wider, and better
armed since they carry twelve anti-aerial guns of greater power and sixteen
torpedo tubes, and as the same time have more powerful engines. The
Washington Conference, that adopted the 10,000-ton limit, apparently forgot
to define what is previously a 10,000-ton cruiser. It is surmised that the
cleverly-designed Italian cruisers are very fine indeed. It is expected
that the adoption of quadruple turrets in future French ships will restore
to the French side superiority for the utilisation militaire du déplacement
by permitting an armament of ten guns-eight in two quadruple turrets,
two in single turrets on the sides, giving an end-on fire of six 8-in. weapons,
superior to anything yet designed
The three 2,650-ton flotilla leaders, of which two are already ordered at
Lorient, will be superior to the Chacal type in structural robustness, motor
power, and armament; they will carry cruiser calibers, probably the
latest improvement of the 5.5-in. type, which is logical, superiority of range
over ordinary destroyers being necessary in flotilla mother-ships. More-
over, the advent of numerous 35-knot cruisers, themselves redoubtable
destroyers of destroyers, calls for a substantial increase in the speed of
flotilla leaders. We are in for a tremendous competition of speed that
will entail a fast depreciation of existing flotillas.
The four torpilleurs d'escadre, on the point of being ordered, will mark
a slight progress on the eighteen units of similar type now in hand (Simoun-


  p. 1765 (#697)                      #

1925]
1765
Professional Notes
Alcyon series) of 1,455 to 1,500 tons normal displacement. The armament
of four 5.1-in. weapons is considered sufficient, excelling that of all British
and American destroyers in commission; robustness and speed are the
points requiring attention.
The seven submarines, already ordered in Cherbourg, Lorient, and Brest
arsenals, will be improved copies of the Requin, Souffler, and Marsouin, that
are undergoing trials and giving satisfaction. There is nothing experimental
in them, but tried systems of motors. Their speed is moderate, not exceed-
ing 16 knots on the surface, but the shape and robustness of the bows and
hulls and of the endurance of the motors enable the nominal rate of speed
to be maintained at sea. With their sixteen 22-in. torpedoes apiece, the
sixteen submersibles of that class already in hand will mean a valuable
reinforcement to the French underwater flotillas, especially as they have been
designed for ocean warfare and can keep the sea for over thirty days at a
stretch. Twenty-one further units of so-called premiere classe are projected
to be laid down from 1926 to 1929.
In addition, two submarine mine-layers are to be ordered of the improved
Chailley type. The paris Section Technique has carefully studied this
effective and relatively economical type of defensive craft; lengthy post-
war comparative experiments, still going on, have been conducted in the
Mediterranean and in the Channel with the six sousmarins mouilleurs de
mines in service: viz., the Callot, of 1,300 tons; Chailley, of 1,200 tons ;
René-Audry (ex-Boche), of 1,600 tons; Reveillé (ex-Boche), of 980 tons ;
and Astree and Amaranthe, of 550 tons (submerged), that carry from
thirty to sixty mines with four different systems of installation. The
Normand and Gironde firms have specialized in this class of craft. The
Callot minelayer (Schneider Diesels) and the submersible Lagrange have
just completed a prolonged endurance test in the Mediterranean. A re-
serve supply of efficient mines is being prepared. All-round progress has
been realized, and the French Navy, that commenced the war with rather
inferior torpedoes and mines (nine different systems!) has well regained the
ground lost.
A large mine-laying cruiser is to be laid down shortly at Lorient; she
is intended for ocean warfare, colonial defense, and to be a sort of mining
flotilla mother-ship. A 19-knot seaplane carrier has, besides, been ordered
for general use. Had such a ship been available at the present moment,
operations against the Riff rebels would have been greatly facilitated. At
the same time, it would have been more economical and far more speedy
to convert a liner into a seaplane carrier, in imitation of what Great Britain,
Italy, and Spain have done with success.
The question of naval dirigibles is anew on the carpet. Their partisans
are many in the service, especially since the cost of fast cruisers is growing
at a rapid rate. Colonel de Grenedan, the father of the late commander
of the ill-fated Dixmude, has submitted to the Commissions de la Marine a
strong plea in favor of a return to the dirigible program that has been
abandoned as a consequence of the loss, he says, est le croiseur par ex-
cellence des marines pauvaes; it costs to build ten times less than a
cruiser, consumes per mile eight times less fuel, has a speed at least twice
superior and three times greater radius of action, possesses a radius of vision
twenty times superior, and is 100 times less vulnerable, besides requiring a
crew thirty times less numerous, and requires three months only to be com-
pleted instead of thirty. “Few eggs is one basket,” such is the rational re-
tort that well-managed navies must give to the growing powers of de-
struction ; that operates in favor of dirigibles. The material and human loss
caused to France by the Dixmude disaster was twenty-seven times inferior
to that which the Suffren (12,750 tons) catastrophe entailed. These con-


  p. 1766 (#698)                      #

1766
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
vincing arguments instilled new life into the existing French dirigible
flotillas, that are awaking anew to aerial activity.
On the other hand, Senator Cheron, in the name of the Upper Commis-
sion de la Marine, raised three points: viz., Helium gas, necessary for
safety, is at a prohibitive price; even helium-filled dirigibles would be at
the mercy of fighting seaplanes, that are twice as speedy and very much less
vulnerable; and, thirdly, the English Navy, as the result of long experience
and many tests, has given over the gas-bag. Yet, German experts are busy
improving the Friedrichshafen dirigible plant; that, too, deserves attention.
Interesting points are to be noted in the recent naval debate in the
Senate. There was not a single hostile vote to the Navy, in contrast with
the Chamber that contains anti-navy Communists. The submarine program,
though comprising twenty-one units now in hand, and thirty-six more to
construct from 1925 to 1929, was judged to be totally insufficient by many
senators; and if new submarines were not added to the list it was solely for
the sake of not delaying the taking in hand of the ships voted by the
Chamber. Again, the creation was urged of a Central Technical Com-
mittee, comprising only practical men, naval and non-naval (no windbags),
and having for its rôle research and to find new weapons, more economi-
cal and effective, better ships, and better motors—a right course, since
progress and efficiency are synonymous, but impossible now as l'adieux
paperasserie (Admiral Darrieus) is more than ever submerging the whole
French naval service, routine work taking up the best time of those con-
structors who ought to be heart and soul absorbed by ship-designing. The
English, Italian, and American Navies are much better off in that vital
respect. French public opinion's ignorance of the sea and of its life-and-
death importance Senator Cheron eloquently deplored.
UNITED STATES
“Old Ironsides” Campaign
(Information Circular) Lieutenant John A. Lord, U. S. N., the naval
constructor who has been assigned the task of rebuilding the U. S. S. Con-
stitution, the famous fighting frigate, after a careful survey has reported to
Rear Admiral L. R. de Steiguer, commandant of the First Naval District,
that any attempt to dock the historic ship in her present condition might
result in her collapse and make her restoration impossible.
Most of the job of rebuilding "Old Ironsides” must be done while she
is afloat, for the moment that she rests on her keel and on bilge blocks in
drydock the vertical pressure on the center lines of the badly decayed
frigate will cause her docks to buckle and in all probability fall to pieces.
This was the fate of the old wooden frigate Richmond some years ago when
she was placed in drydock at the Norfolk Navy Yard. Her decks buckled
and her lines became so distorted that the Navy Department was forced
to condemn her.
While "Old Ironsides" is afloat the pressure is evenly distributed, and
the work of rebuilding above the water line will proceed without mishap.
Then, with an elaborate system of shoring her up, she can be placed in a
drydock to have her hull rebuilt.
Lieutenant Lord comes of a long line of Maine wooden-ship builders and
is the only expert that the Navy Department could muster to rebuild the
Constitution when the school children of the nation raise $500,000, the
amount necessary for her restoration. The Benevolent and Protective
Order of Elks, upon the invitation of the Secretary of the Navy, have made
plans to make contact with every school in the nation and collect the chil-
dren's pennies, dimes, and nickels during the week of October 19-24.


  p. 1767 (#699)                      #

1925)
1767
Professional Notes
Hawaii's Naval Need; Comments by British
By Hector C. Bywater, Baltimore Sun, 20 July, 1925.—London, July 2.-
American press stories of the naval maneuvers off Hawaii were studied
with deep interest by European observers who are hoping that some more
authoritative version of the proceedings will in due course be made public.
Meanwhile, the newspaper reports, being more or less unanimous, are
accepted as giving a fairly accurate narrative of what took place. The
impression they convey is that the maneuvers were planned not so much with
the idea of working out definite problems of strategy as for the purpose of
exposing the military weakness of the Hawaiian Islands and so bringing
Congress and the country at large into the right mood for granting the
money necessary to make good the most obvious deficiencies.
If this was really the object in view it seems to have been achieved,
judging from statements made subsequently by members of Congress who
were present.
It is, however, matter for surprise that such a demonstration should have
been needed. The enormous importance of this insular group as the key
factor of American defense in the Pacific is self-evident. It would be
physically impossible for the United States to conduct any serious war
operations, either defensive or offensive, in that ocean unless there existed
in Hawaii an adequate and well-found fleet base.
At present, it seems, no such base does exist. Under ordinary tidal con-
ditions Pearl Harbor cannot be entered by battleships even at normal draft,
to say nothing of damaged ships which might be drawing forty feet or
more. Clearly, therefore, the first requirment is a deepening of the chan-
nel to at least forty-five feet. Until this has been done Pearl Harbor must
continue to rank as a second-class base of limited war value.
Next in importance is the provision of additional docks for dreadnaughts.
With only one dock available the plight of a fleet which had suffered heavy
damage in an engagement would be desperate. Battered ships would either
have to wait their turn for repairs or be towed 2.000 miles to the American
mainland. In either case the delay might have disastrous results.
Nor is it only for ships damaged in action that docks are required.
Unless a warship is periodically docked and cleaned she loses her speed,
and it should not be overlooked that the speed of a fleet is that of its
slowest unit. It was only because all of the ships were docked and refitted
at regular intervals that the British grand feet was able to maintain a
uniform standard of efficiency during the World War.
At the Singapore base, where it is most improbable that more than half
the British fleet will ever be stationed at one time, there is to be dry dock
accommodation for two dreadnaughts, and possibly a floating dock for a
third ship of this type. It will be seen, therefore, that the building of
additional battleship docks in Hawaii is a requirement of the most urgent
importance.
Naval onlookers here are less impressed by statements of Oahu's vulner-
ability to attack, simply because they do not believe the Hawaiian group
lies within the radius of heavy assault from any quarter.
In the recent maneuvers the "Blue" forces approximated to the strength
of the Japanese Navy (vide The Sun for April 28), which was assumed
to have crossed the Pacific with its full force of ten capital ships and used
them to cover a landing of 30,000 troops on Oahu, the entire American bat-
tle fleet being temporarily imprisoned in the Atlantic by the destruction of
the Panama locks.
That the whole scheme of the Hawaiian war game rested upon such
far-fetched hypotheses explains why its strategic significance is discounted in
naval circles. Leaving aside the extremely improbable event of the entire


  p. 1768 (#700)                      #

1768
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
battle fleet's being in the Atlantic at a time when relations with Japan were
clouded ever so faintly, let us briefly examine the logistics of the strategical
problem here postulated.
Japan's ten capital ships represent her total resources in this type, and
losses among them could not be replaced in time to be of war service.
That she would send this fleet as a unit to essay the conquest of a strongly
fortified enemy base 3,400 miles distant is incredible. The presence of
numerous auxiliary ships and at least a score of troop transports would re-
strict the speed of the fleet to 12 or 14 knots, so that the voyage would
occupy ten or twelve days.
When it was approaching Hawaii this unwieldy armada would be liable
to attack by aircraft and submarines, for the war game credited the defense
with ninety of the former and twenty of the latter. It would arrive at the
objective with much of its fuel burned and no prospect of obtaining fresh
supplies unless American stocks of oil and coal were captured intact.
The ten capital ships would first have to silence the shore defenses, which
include a number of long-range guns and heavy howitzers. If experience at
the Dardanelles and on the Flanders coast counts for aught, this initial
operation would be foredoomed to failure, having regard to the forces
available on each side.
If the Japanese battleships fired at long range, their shooting would be
mostly ineffective; if they engaged the forts at close range, they would
stand a good chance of being disabled or sunk. What the troop transports
would be doing all of this time we are left to conjecture, but it would be
strange if they did not suffer severely from air and submarine attacks.
However, if by some miracle these difficulties were overcome, the next
step would be to throw ashore 30,000 men on the northern coast of Oahu,
which is supposed not to be commanded by any of the batteries. As the
landing would have to be made in boats, nosing their way through channels
in the coral reef, no big guns or other weighty material could be brought
ashore. In the war game a skeleton force of 1,500 men contrived to land
between dark and dawn, but when 30,000 were involved the operation might
take days.
And what would the defenders be doing while this leisurely invasion was
proceeding? Despite the naval bombardment, it would certainly be feasible
to rush mobile guns to positions whence the boats and landing beaches
could be brought under fire, leaving a machine-gun barrage to account for
such isolated parties of the enemy as managed to scramble ashore. As a last
line of defense there would be the complete mobile army division which is
stationed at Schofield Barracks.
Such are a few of the practical hindrances to a successful invasion of
Hawaii by the Japanese. Without terming it absolutely impossible, it may
fairly be described as a thousand to one chance. Since the Japanese in pre-
vious wars have always shown a shrewd appreciation of the elements of
strategy, it is in the last degree unlikely that they would ever dream of
committing themselves to an enterprise of this foolhardy character.
AVIATION
Commercial Air Transport
Aviation, 13 July, 1925.—Now that the National Air Transport has
ordered ten Carrier Pigeons to start its New York-Chicago service, there
will be some figuring done as to just how much flying these planes could
do. As the N.A.T. does not plan to fly on Saturdays or Sundays, the
number of round trips per year may average about 250, making allowance
for holidays and trips cancelled on account of bad weather. The round
trip is about 1,500 mi, to which should be added 10 per cent for ferrying
and testing. This would give a total mileage for one year of 412,500 mi.


  p. 1769 (#701)                      #

1925)
1769
Professional Notes
Taking this route mileage and using 100 mi./hr. as an average speed we find
that the ten planes will be required to fly 4,000 hr. per year or 400 per
machine which means a total average use of a machine of 1.6 hr. per flying
day or a little over one hour for the calendar year. As the life of a
modern airplane can be considered to be 200,000 mi., the above estimating
would indicate that ten Carrier Pigeons would last five years-eliminating
crashes.
It will be recalled that Colonel Searles of the Daimler Hire and later
of the Imperial Airways claimed that no airplane could make money un-
less it flew eight or more hours a day. Furthermore, he actually proved
that airplanes can do that much flying every day.
When all the enthusiasm over air transport has calmed down and costs
and profits are the main objectives, then just two questions will be upper-
most in the minds of the directors of the N.A.T. How much traffic was
there? What mileage did we get from our equipment? After all is said
about the enterprising vision of pioneers in air transport, the net result
will probably center around these two factors. We have seen estimates
that called for a complete rebuilding of a service plane after every 500
flying hours, and after every 100 hr. for engines. These estimates also
did not include the crashes. On this basis each of the ten Carrier Pigeons
would have to be rebuilt once every year. It will be one of the most
interesting phases of the development to observe the departures from air
mail practice of a company headed by men with aircraft experience. Nearly
everyone has heard the statement made that if the air mail is inefficient
it is because it is limited by governmental restrictions, civil service, and, to
a minor degree, political considerations. Everyone will watch the planes
of the N.A.T. with this in mind.
Civil and Military Aircraft
Aviation, 6 July, 1925.-In spite of the many statements to the contrary
it can be shown that aircraft for government uses and those for civilian
purposes are basically different. Both as regards cost and structural
strength, the two are as wide apart as the poles. The military and naval
people think of cost as the last item in considering an airplane's value.
Sacrifices are made at every step of design, fabrication, and test to get
the required performance. Just the contrary is true with aircraft for
commercial purposes. Safety and earning power are the prime considera-
tions with these types. Costs must be reckoned with continually and no
compromises are allowable when life or property is to be transported.
With these fundamental differences in mind and an incentive provided in the
form of substantial rewards for advanced designs, the constructors would
not be so enamoured by the size of government orders that they would
consider commercial types of machines as a side line.
The Uses of Water Recovery
Aviation, 6 July, 1925.-Water recovery is now in use as regular equip-
ment on the airships Shenandoah and Los Angeles, and it has been con-
clusively demonstrated that an amount of water can be recovered from the
exhaust gases from the engines, in fight, which more than enuals the
weight of fuel consumed in porducing those exhaust gases. While this is
an interesting novelty, it may be wondered just what the value of the system
may be, and it is the purpose of this article to outline a few uses to which
it may be put.
The first is the conservation of lifting gas. In an airship it is necessary
to maintain an approximate balance between the lift exerted by the helium
or hydrogen in the gas cells and the weight, represented by structure, crew,
fuel, ballast, and so forth. If there is an excess of lift it may be corrected


  p. 1770 (#702)                      #

1770
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
by permitting some of the lifting gas to escape, while an excess of weight
is taken care of by throwing over ballast. In fight, correction may also be
effected by flying the ship nose up or nose down. In this case the hull acts
somewhat as the wings of an airplane, and the reaction of the air upon it
gives dynamic lift, which increases the lift if the nose is pointed upwards,
and augments the weight if the nose is pointed down. This method of cor-
rection, however, is limited in its application, and, while it may be used to
overcome slight discrepancies in equilibrium, it cannot take care of that
caused by the burning of fuel. This obviously results in a reduction of the
gross weight of the ship, which calls for the release of lifting gas to
maintain equilibrium.
This is an expensive proceeding, especially with helium. To operate the
Shenandoah at cruising speed, it would be necessary to valve helium to
the value of $1,000 per hour. Even if this could be afforded, there is not
enough helium available to refill ships operated in this fashion. Conse-
quently, if helium is to be used at all, some means must be found to prevent
its waste. With water recovery the gross weight of the ship may be kept
constant, so that it becomes unnecessary to release any lifting gas.
With hydrogen, it is usually considered that the gas is so cheap that it
may be allowed to escape without serious loss. Alternatively, it is some-
times argued that water recovery involves the installation of weighty ap-
paratus, and that the reduction in useful load accompanying this cannot
be tolerated. Figures of actual costs are unfortunately not yet available, but
it is possible to show that the saving in the cost of hydrogen is greatly in
excess of the value of the space sacrificed.
Taking as a basis estimates made by Commander Burney for his proposed
service from England to India, which is now actually being proceeded in
a modified form, and converting his figures on the basis of five dollars to
a pound, his cost of hydrogen per annum becomes $500,000. The cor-
responding figure for depreciation, insurance, and repairs is $1,750,000 per
annum. On the basis of the results obtained on the Shenandoah the weight
of apparatus necessary to effect water recovery may be placed at less than
2 per cent of the gross lift of the ship; on the large ships now authorized
for the England to India service the deadweight will amount to 50 per cent
of the gross lift. To restore the original useful load to a ship equipped with
water recovery would therefore involve increasing its gross lift by 4 per
cent. This would increase the capital charges by an approximately cor-
responding amount, so that, to carry the useful load originally contemplated,
water recovery involves an increase in the annual charges of $70,000, and
offers a saving of $500,000. The ratio between these figures indicates that
water recovery should be a very useful proposition, even with hydrogen.
In actual practice it is probable that water recovery will result, not in a
loss of useful load as considered above, but in an actual increase. An
airship must carry emergency ballast, and without water recovery this must
be taken aboard at the start and is a deduction from possible useful load.
With the new system the recovered water may be used as ballast, so that
more useful load may be taken on at the start and the ballast manufactured
en route. This might involve the possible discharge of fuel to meet an emer-
gency arising early in the course of a flight, but special "slip tanks" are
provided for emergencies in any case, and to extend their use to this added
case would seem permissible since it would not prejudice the safety of the
ship and would permit useful gains.
The amount of useful load that must be sacrificed to provide emergency
ballast is a very debatable point. The war-time practice of the Germans,
it is understood, was to fly with no ballast at all; it can only be assumed that
they treated maneuvering risks as added war hazards and risked the loss of
ships from this cause in order to obtain increased military value. Such risks
cannot be taken in peace time. An idea of the absolute safe minimum may


  p. 1771 (#703)                      #

1925]
1771
Professional Notes
be gained from the amount carried by the R-34 in crossing the Atlantic:
this represented 5 per cent of the gross lift, and in that case, if ever, useful
load could not be sacrificed unnecessarily. One or two examples of emer-
gencies in which such ballast would prove useful may serve to illustrate the
necessity for an adequate reserve.
The first is the loss of a gas cell. The material forming the walls is a
very light fabric, and though strong enough to meet all ordinary loads, is
none the less delicate and liable to be punctured by accident. Such a
puncture could occur, for example, through some articles coming in contact
with a propeller blade. This would damage the propeller, and the article,
probably with pieces of the propeller in addition, would be thrown outwards.
As there is about one chance in three of any one of these pieces being thrown
into the hull, and in this case the one piece would very probably also pierce
the gas cell, the danger is an appreciable one. It cannot be said for certain
that a careless passenger might not drop something overboard and that this
article might not cause the puncturing of a gas cell, nor is it certain that
a cell might not be punctured from some other accidental cause just as a
surface ship is liable to have a watertight compartment flooded by accident.
ſt therefore seemis prudent to require that an airship should be able to
keep the air in such an emergency. To do this she must be able to jettison
weight equal to the lift of the lost cell, and under present conditions of
operation there are times toward the end of a flight when she would not
be able to do this, since the weight to be sacrificed might amount to 9 or 10
per cent of the gross lift in the case of the largest cell. With water re-
covery the emergency could be met in the early stages of a flight as well as
at present, and could also be met at any other time without involving any
additional sacrifice in lift.
Another emergency that might arise is the complete exhaustion of the
fuel supply. A large reserve will, of course, always be carried, but even
when this amounts to 50 per cent of that necessary for a given journey under
normal conditions, head winds might be encountered and the ship find her-
self with insufficient fuel to reach a base. Without ballast she would in all
probability come to earth during the first night after the stoppage of her
engines. This would not be a violent descent, but a gradual fall due to the
loss of lift from temparature variations between gas and air. In the worst,
and usual case, the gas would become superheated during the day, attaining
a temperature in excess of atmospheric, due to the absorption of some
of the sun's heat by the outer cover and the transference of a portion of
this to the gas itself. This would cause what is known as false lift, and
its immediate effect on a ship with engines stopped would be to cause it to
rise to pressure height and to lose gas until the remaining lift balanced the
weight of the ship. As soon as the sun ceased to shine the gas would start
to cool to the atmospheric temperature, the volume and the lift would fall
in consequence, and the ship would descend. A similar effect might occur,
due to a rise in the air temperature. So long as air and gas remained at
the same temperature and the gas cells were less than full, equilibrium would
not be disturbed, but as there would probably be a lag in the rise of the gas
temperature there would be a loss of lift. Even though this loss of lift
might be small, if the ship had no ballast available she would settle to the
ground.
Under such conditions a commercial ship would probably find herself with
perhaps 5 per cent of water ballast and this would enable her to keep the
air for one night. The next day superheat would probably occur again
and on the loss of this she would come to earth. With water recovery,
about 25 per cent of the gross lift would be available as ballast and a ship
so equipped could stay up for several days, during which time something
could probably be done toward rescuing her.


  p. 1772 (#704)                      #

1772
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
With hydrogen there is a risk of the destruction of the ship through
the burning of the lifting gas; this is eliminated by the use of helium-at a
price. This price is 8 per cent of the gross lift, which is a very severe tax
on the performance of an airship. While the added safety conferred, as
compared with hydrogen as used in the past, may justify this price, the
possibility exists of securing safety by other means at a lesser price. For
example, mixtures of helium and hydrogen, and combination gas cells with
the hydrogen protected by a layer of helium, have been suggested. These
may or may not be successful; but another method is available as an adjunct
to water recovery. This is the insulation of the hydrogen by a surrounding
layer of cooled exhaust gas.
It is known that such an insulation is remarkably effective as a protec-
tion against fire, being proof even against incendiary bullets except when
these are directed in a stream against a single spot. Nitrogen was first sug-
gested for this purpose, and the use of exhaust gas is at present being
strongly advocated by Commander Boothby for the large ships now being
started in England. By merely filling the space between the gas cells and
the outer cover with exhaust gas and modifying the ventilation arrange-
ments, it is at least possible that a degree of protection against fire com-
parable with that obtainable from helium may be secured. There is little
doubt that it would prove completely effective against lightning, and for
peace time uses would probably fail only against a fire that would endanger
the ship without igniting the hydrogen. Even on a helium ship there is the
danger of fire from gasoline. It is very difficult to keep the long fuel lines
absolutely tight, and a leak in the keel space offers a better chance for the
start of a fire than the hydrogen does. Such a fire might be extinguished on
a helium ship, whereas it would probably spread to hydrogen were that
gas present, and cause the destruction of the ship. With exhaust gas in-
sulation the fuel tanks and lines will be within the insulation space so that
the danger of a fire from the gasoline will be less than in a helium filled
ship without insulation.
This protection cannot be secured for nothing, but if used in conjunction
with water recovery the necessary exhaust is available, ready cooled, and
the cost of completing the installation should not exceed one per cent of the
gross lift, at a liberal estimate. This figure covers apparatus to render the
gas non-injurious to the gas cells, fabric partitions within the hull, and gas
delivery arrangements.
Finally, water recovery offers two additional minor advantages; it acts
as a complete silencer to the exhaust noise, which is a matter of distinct
interest when passengers are being carried, and the recovered water may be
filtered and used for purposes other than ballast. It has actually been
rendered potable, and should certainly be available for radiator reserve and
for passengers' use for washing, and so forth.
Summarizing, then, with helium the use of water recovery to conserve
the gas is essential, and even with hydrogen conservation results in a very
considerable net saving; the process provides reserve buoyancy, and hence
protection against emergencies, in excess of that which could reasonably
be provided by other means; it makes possible an increase in the useful
load, since the apparatus weighs less than the minimum landing ballast
that must be carried, which may be manufactured en route instead of being
taken on at the start; it provides protection against fire comparable with
that obtainable from helium at a price in lift of one per cent of the gross
lift as against 8 per cent; it completely silences the noise from the engine
exhausts, and provides water suitable for radiator and for domestic purposes.


  p. 1773 (#705)                      #

1925)
1773
Professional Notes
ENGINEERING
The Motor Passenger Liner "Asturias"
The Engineer, 10 July, 1925.—(See Frontispiece). On the seventh inst.,
the motor ship Asturias was launched from Messrs. Harland and Wolff's
East Yard at Belfast by Her Excellency the Duchess of Abercorn in
the presence of Lord Kylsant, the chairman of the Royal Mail Steam
Packet Company and a distinguished company. The occasion was of un-
usual importance, not only because of the substantial addition to the Royal
Mail fleet that the vessel represents, followed as she is to be by a sister ship
well on the way, but also because she is the largest and most powerful
vessel that has yet been produced. The use of motor driven vessels for
small sizes has been notably increasing for some years, but opinions are
divided as to their suitability for large powers and heavy tonnage. Messrs.
Harland and Wolff's reputation as successful pioneers in the increase of the
size of vessels and their propelling machinery makes their production of
this vessel a piece of practical evidence of which account must be taken
in the controversy now pending.
The Asturias is of 22,000 tons gross register, and how far the Royal
Mail Company has gone since it began to carry mail, passengers and cargo
in 1851, is suggested fairly by reference to the R.M.S. Teviot, with which
its interprise began, a vessel of 1,744 tons, propelled by paddle wheels with
the help of sails. The leading dimensions of the Asturias are: length,
655 ft. 8 in.; breadth, 78 ft.; and depth, 45 ft.; and she is driven by a pair of
Harland, Burmeister and Wain, 8-cylinder four-cycle, double-acting Diesel
engines, running at 155 r.p.m. The engines develop 10,000 i.h.p. each, and
deliver their 20,000 h.p. on two shafts, thus enabling the normal twin-
crew practice to be maintained. The engines are shown in Frontispiece, and,
as will be seen, follow generally the lines of previous four-cycle double-
acting engines by the same makers. Two three-stage air compressors ar-
ranged in tandem are mounted at the forward end of each engine, and driven
off an extension of the crankshaft, providing compressed air for fuel injec-
tion. The output of each of these compressors is by itself nearly enough to
serve the engine at full output. The fuel pumps are also driven off the main
engine. The engines have forced lubrication throughout, oil serving also
for cooling the piston, and fresh water being used in the cylinder jackets
for cooling. Maneuvering air is provided by three two-stage air compressors,
charging six steel reservoirs at twenty-five atmospheres, and like the other
engine room auxiliaries, the compressors are electrically driven by inde-
pendent motors. A small emergency steam-driven compressor is also
provided, and two oil-fired vertical boilers supply steam for cooking pur-
poses, and so forth.
Supercharging
The Engineer, 10 July, 1925.—The production of a maximum of work
from a minimum of material, consistent with reliable service, is the broad
basis of commercial efficiency which finds ample expresssion in engineering
products of all kinds. It is reflected in the progress of internal combustion
engineering, by continual efforts to increase the power output from a given
weight of material, an aim which, in addition to its commercial economic
aspect, possesses features of technical importance, as, for instance, in aero-
nautical engineering, where weight reduction is of primary importance.
For some time internal combustion engineers have been aware that they
are fast approaching finality in the application of this fundamental com-
mercial principle to the simpler, long-tried types of engines, and that any
considerable further advance in power output is only to be expected from
some new departure. A radical change, however, is improbable, and is


  p. 1774 (#706)                      #

1774
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
not looked for by those concerned in the face of the proven thoroughness
of the principles already applied. Rather is attention being turned to the
development of auxiliary mechanisms, by which to improve the efficiency
of the general types now so well established. Thus, we hear of extensive
researches in progress on waste heat recovery and on supercharging. It
is with the latter that we are now more particularly concerned.
Supercharging is rather an ambiguous expression, in that it is applied
unconditionally to any means of employing a compressor for introducing
the charge into an internal combustion engine. In consequence, it frequently
gives rise to misconceptions. Although known before, this particular use
of the compressor first found serious application during the war, to over-
come the loss of engine power, caused by the rarified atmosphere, when
flying at high altitudes. In effect, it increased the density of the air, thereby
insuring a combustible mixture of the same quality, and having the same
properties as when flying near the ground. But, it is open to question
whether some word other than supercharging should not be found to describe
what, after all, is only a method of correcting the deterioration of normal
combustion conditions. Although the cycle is similar, the conditions are quite
different when the compressor is applied for introducing the mixture to the
combustion chamber of a land engine. In the case of the aircraft engine, the
compressor is necessary at high altitudes to maintain the normal fuel con-
sumption, i.e., to provide sufficient air to maintain the normal power output;
but in the case of the land engine the compressor is applied solely to increase
the specific power, or power output, in proportion to the capacity of the cylin-
der, and so involves increased fuel consumption. This, after a certain stage
is passed, means increased mean temperature. General application of the
term supercharging to both sets of conditions gives rise to misunderstandings
between those more intimately concerned with aero-engines who do not
experience this temperature effect, and others who are primarily. interested
in obtaining higher specific powers at ground level. Supercharging is the
subject of considerable experimental work now in progress in this country,
Italy, Sweden, and elsewhere. It is recognized that far-reaching effects may
result from the perfection of a method of introducing into engines a weight
of mixture considerably greater than that which corresponds with the normal
capacity of the cylinders. In fact, the principle, in addition to offering
higher powers from a given weight of metal, holds out prospects of over-
coming one of the inherent characteristics which limits the utility of the
internal combustion engine, namely, its lack of flexibility. If that can be
achieved, we are within sight of what will be a welcome and revolutionary
development in motor car design-the elimination of the gear box, an un-
desirable device which is responsible for the wastage of millions of gallons
of fuel. A reduction in the size of the motor car engine to that required
for normal working conditions on level roads, with the gear box replaced
by a supercharging device, which would provide the necessary reserve of
power for hill-climbing and bursts of speed, is not an inconceivable develop-
ment. Moreover, as the motor would, generally, be run at a speed corre-
sponding to the maximum efficiency, such a system would offer a solution
of the variable power engine problem, and, indeed, a complete solution if
the effect of the supercharger could be proportioned to any load on the
motor. Another prospect held out by the supercharging principle is that
of utilizing the heat generated by the compressor, and the pulverizing effect
of the air blast, to facilitate the combustion of heavier fuels.
It is realized that much costly research will be necessary before the
developments foreshadowed can be brought to fruition, and the problem
appears to be, to a considerable extent, a metallurgical one. Laboratory
tests have indicated the possibility of increasing the power of existing
motors up to 20 per cent, by means of supercharging, but the temperatures
attained are prohibitive, and cause rapid deterioration of material. The


  p. 1775 (#707)                      #

1925)
1775
Professional Notes
risk of injury is not entirely absent with increases of only 10 per cent,
and as increases approaching that figure are still well within the range of
possibility for many engines, by general improvements and re-design of
existing features, no general development in supercharging seems probable
until metallurgical developments permit the fullest application of the prin-
ciple.
German Admiralty's Proposed Rotorship
The Nautical Gazette, 18 July, 1925.-Details are now available of the
new rotor-ship which will be built by the German Admiralty, says Fairplay.
The vessel will have dimensions of 85 by 13.20 by 5.80 meters, and a
deadweight capacity of 3,000 tons. The hull will be that of an ordinary
freighter, with a cruiser stern and a Flettner rudder. The main propelling
machinery consists of two six-cylinder single-acting four-cycle Diesel engines,
running at 300 revolutions per minute. The power, which amounts to 1,050
b.h.p., is transmitted to a single-screw propeller by a Vulcan hydraulic
clutch gear, and when the vessel is being driven by the wind the engines
can be disengaged and the propeller allowed to revolve freely. The screw
propeller will alone give the ship a speed of ten knots, and the power taken
from the wind may be used either to increase the speed or to replace one or
two engines while these are stopped.
The rotor tower is placed amidships, and has a height of 28 meters
(92 ft.), and a diameter of 7 meters (23 ft.), while the Buckau had two
towers of a height of 15.6 meters (51 ft.), and 2.8 meters (9.2 ft.) diameter.
The projected area of the tower of the new vessel, which is a measure
of the driving power, is thus more than double that of the Buckau towers.
Fine Performance of Motorships
The Nautical Gasette, 25 July, 1925.—The remarkable performance of
the motorships City of Panama and City of San Francisco, operated by
the Panama Mail Steamship Company in the California-Central American
trade, is exciting much favorable comment on the Pacific Coast, and it is
hinted that the owners intend, at some future date, to build other vessels
of this type for the Central American route. The two vessels have now
been operating more than a year, and their repair bills have been almost
wholly negligible. In eight months the City of Panama has required only
a small welding job, costing less than $5, and the upkeep record of the
City of San Francisco is little, if any, less impressive. They are both
powered within twin six-cylinder, four-cycle, single-acting, directly rever-
sible crosshead-type Burmeister and Wain Diesels, developing 1,400 horse-
power, and making 130 revolutions per minute at full speed. The vessels
were built in Sweden but now fly the Panama flag.
The “Aorangi”
The Marine Engineer and Motorship Builder, July, 1925.–From time
to time paragraphs appear in the columns of the daily papers, both home
and colonial, relative to the service performance of the motor liner Aorangi,
which aroused so much interest when she left this country for her maiden
trip early this year, and from these reports it would seem that both owners
and builders must have every reason to be satisfied with their choice of
Diesel engines for the particular service in question. We understand that
on her maiden voyage the Aorangi encountered extremely heavy weather,
both in the Atlantic and in the Pacific, so much so that part of her super-
structure was carried away, and had it not been for the regularity and
precision with which the engines ran, the ship would have been placed
in a very awkward position. One of the latest reports says that she left


  p. 1776 (#708)                      #

1776
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Auckland for Vancouver many hours late owing to a severe rain storm
and that she succeeded in reaching Vancouver several hours ahead of her
scheduled time, thus proving that she has a very ample reserve of speed
and power. The Aorangi is the pioneer large passenger and mail motor
liner and, as such, she occupies a very important position in the marine
engineering world because other owners and other builders are watching
her performance with more than usual care in order to obtain an indication
as to the desirability or otherwise of fitting their new tonnage with Diesel
engines. The next large motor passenger and mail liner, the Gripsholm, was
due originally to go on service early this year but, so far, owing to a
series of strikes in Denmark, where her main engines are being built, she
has been regrettably delayed, and it seems that we shall not see her on the
Atlantic until toward the end of the year. In this case, also, the enterprise
of both builders and owners is to be greatly admired. The Gripsholm will
be as much a pioneer as the Aorangi, but in a different direction, because
she will be the first large ship to be fitted with double-acting Diesel engines;
also she will be the first large motorship on the Atlantic service. The Pacific
service and, in particular, the service which the Union Steam Ship Company
of New Zealand Limited maintains, has seen many pioneering developments
in marine engineering, including the combination steam reciprocating engine
and low-pressure turbine, which has worked very successfully indeed.
6
.....................
2,000
German Diesel Engine Practice*
The Marine Engineer and Motorship Builder, July, 1925.—The new
single-acting six-cylinder four-stroke cycle crosshead type M.A.N. Diesel
engine is the outcome of long experience, both in the construction of low
and high-speed engines of the trunk piston type, as well as in earlier types
of slow-running crosshead engines. The particular engine described in
the present article may be considered as typical as other sizes and powers,
and has the following principal dimensions :
Maximum length ....
.....10,850 mm. (36 ft.).
Maximum width ......... ............... 3,500 mm. (11.5 ft.).
Maximum height above center of shaft ... 7,080 mm. (23.3 ft.).
Maximum height above base of bedplate .. 7,880 mm. (25.8 ft.).
Cylinder, diameter .......
700 mm. (27.5 in.).
Stroke ..
1,400 mm. (4.6 ft.).
Number of cylinders .....
Brake horse-power
Revolutions per min......
108
Mean effective pressure
5.17 atmos. (76 lb. per sq. in.).
Injection air compressor, d eters-
ist stage ......,
700 mm. (27.5 in.).
2nd stage ...........
620 mm. (24.4 in.).
3rd stage ..............
150 mm. (5.94).
Piston Stroke ............
500 mm. (19.65 in.).
Crank shaft, diameter ...,
455 mm. (17.85 in.).
Weight of engine with air bottles, exclusive of flywheel, exhaust mani-
fold and fittings, 270 tons approximate.
The cast iron bedplate is built in two parts, each bolted together. The
bedplate supports eight identical and interchangeable shaft bearings, and
carries below it a steel plate oil drip trough; the used oil being led through
two holes in the trough to the lubricating oil pumps. The main bearings
are lined with white metal, the liners themselves being easily withdrawable.
The upper half of the liners is prevented from rotating, holes being made
in them to enable the bearings to be readily examined. The bearing caps
Abstract of an article appearing in the Zeitschrift des Vereines deutscher Ingenieure.
June 6, 1925.


  p. 1777 (#709)                      #

1925]
1777
Professional Notes
are held down by long through bolts. These, because of their length, are
much less likely to fracture than short tap screws.The crank shaft is made
in two main parts with forged screwed-on flanges; each half is built up by
shrinking on the crank webs to the pins. The scantlings of the shaft satis-
fies Classification Society requirements. The cranks are set at 120°.
The cylinder columns, eight pairs in all, are made of cast iron, of hollow
rectangular section, and are placed immediately above the crank bearings,
thus enabling the spread of the columns to be reduced to a minimum. The
type of column bolting adopted reduces the length of the engine consider-
ably and makes the parts more readily accessible. The cylinders are held
down by long steel bolts, passing through the columns to the bedplate.
The crosshead guides are screwed to adjustable blocks between the columns
on the control side of the engine. These assist considerably to stiffen up
the columns longitudinally. Each set of four pairs of columns supports
one three-cylinder unit, the two units being bolted together over the whole
width. In the designing of these units, as well as the columns and bedplates,
care was taken to evolve a 'form free from likelihood of casting defects.
In each block of cylinders the shrunk cylinder liners are exchangeable.
Between the cylinder block and cover a special cast iron cooling ring is
fitted which takes the top of the cylinder liner, absorbs its heat, leads it
appreciably away, and thus obviates heat stresses in the cylinder castings.
The cylinder covers are each held down by eight bolts. These pass through
the cooling ring, and are bedded to the cylinders. The cover is fitted inside
with a dividing wall placed near the under face of the cover. This wall
serves to restrain the cooling water to the bottom with a consequently
higher speed and greater cooling efficiency.
Between the piston proper (Fig. 1) and the piston rod flange a separate
head is fitted whose ribbing is so designated to convey the cooling water
at suitable speed from the center to the sides of the piston. To supply and
lead away the cooling water telescopic tubes are used, fitted with stuffing
boxes which prevent the leakage of the cooling water into the lubricating
oil. The outer of these telescopic tubes is only connected at its lower end;
the inner and stronger tube is screwed to the piston. The outer, elastic
tube carries the stuffing box and readily adapts itself to the heat of the
engine, thus economizing in packing and ensuring adequate tightness with
but little attention. Water hammer in the supply and exhaust tubes
is counteracted by air vessels. The piston and crank chambers are separated
by plates fitted with stuffing boxes which prevent the dirty oil coming
from the piston and cylinder walls passing through to the oil lubricating
the cranks. The crank shaft and connecting rod arrangement is of the
usual type. The steel connecting rod head is forked and has bronze bear-
ings, the lower crank pin bearings and the crosshead slipper block being
lined with white metal. The crosshead guides are water cooled.
The three-stage air compressor is driven by a bell crank transmission from
an eccentric placed between the two main halves of the crank shafting at
the mid-length of the engine. The second stage is arranged below the first,
and this insures sufficient distribution of the loads coming on the eccentric
and driving pin. The air cooler and oil separator are fitted immediately
adjacent to the compressor.
The engine is lubricated on the forced system, oil being led into each
crank bearing and thence through the center of the crank shaft. As the
shaft is hollow throughout its entire length any disturbance in the oil
circulation can be isolated to one bearing.
In the cylinder cover are arranged the inlet, exhaust, fuel, starting, and
safety valves. The fuel valve is shown in Fig. 2, and is so constructed that
packing previously considered necessary for injection air is avoided. The
needle valve is in an enclosed casing which also contains the rocking lever


  p. 1778 (#710)                      #

1778
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings


U
Lub. Oil
HEERDE
Test Valve
da Fuer
Supply
Check
Valve
SECT. CD
Lub. 0,1
ib
ot
B
101100
SECT. A-8.
FIG. 1.-Piston COOLING ARRANGEMENT AND FUEL VALVE DETAILS
for controlling the needle. On this rocking lever an encased pointer
stamp also acts, and this carries the block upon which the fuel valve lever
presses in opening the needle valve. The stamp previously referred to has a
ball seat at its lower end which closes and opens with the needle valve,
thus avoiding all air loss. The springs of the inlet and exhaust valves are
external, the exhaust valve casing being water cooled. The valve seat is
made of special cast iron connected to the steel valve spindle. The starting
air valve is designed to start up under the pressure of the starting air;
!
0 Overflow
Valve
Der From Injection
Air Container
To Fuel
Valves.
sonjen
24
Fig. 2.--DETAILS OF THE FUEL VALVE


  p. 1779 (#711)                      #

1925)
1779
Professional Notes

Max. Charge
Zero Charge
Running. 6
Running/3.
VIEW FROM
FORWARD.
IE
dib
Stop, Start
Fuel Out
Test Pipe
To Fuel
Valves
no
Up Gear.
Fig. 3.-FUEL PUMP DETAILS
it is, however, controlled by the starting cam. The valve thus only opens
when the pressure in the cylinder is lower than in the air lead and auto-
matically closes when ignition takes place. The escape of hot gases with
this design of starting valve is thus avoided. The safety valve is designed
to take effect at pressures exceeding fifty atmospheres. The valves are
controlled by rocking levers from the camshaft at the level of the cylinder
Reversing Positions
Ahead Astern
E
Test Cock
-PI
Ahead Chamber
Astern Chamber
BE
SECTION A-8.
Fig. 4.-DETAILS OF REVERSING GEAR


  p. 1780 (#712)                      #

1780
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
covers. It is driven from the main shaft between Nos. 3 and 4 cylinders
through a pair of bevel wheels and a lower and upper pair of cone wheels.
The upper pair of cone wheels reduces the shaft revolutions in the ratio of
2:1. The fuel pump shown in Fig. 3 is placed on the camshaft side of the
engine near the central platform. The horizontal intermediate shaft for
driving the central shaft carries an eccentric from which the fuel pump is
driven. The arrangements for varying the fuel change, and hence the
engine power, are fitted to the fuel pump. A safety valve is also fitted
to this pump in order to cut out the fuel supply in case of engine racing or
propeller fracture.
In reversing the engine the camshaft, which carries distinct sets of
ahead and astern cams, is moved axially (see Fig. 4). This motion, at the
instant of reversal, results in a rotation of the valve lever shaft, thus lifting
simultaneously all valve levers and leaving the cams free. The necessary
power for reversing is supplied by compressed air from the injection or
starting air container, this container being connected up with one or other of
the oil chambers by pulling over the reversing levers. The resulting oil
pressure moves the piston, whose motion is transmitted through a rod and
pinion drive to a shaft which, through a cone wheel drive, rotates the cam-
shaft. This, through the movement of the cam levers, displaces the shaft
axially. Finally, the valve levers are brought down to the cams by further
rotation of their shaft.
In starting up compressed air of fifteen to twenty atmospheres pressure
is used. The cylinders are split up into two groups the first of which is
started up on fuel from the control-platform, while the other half is
operated with starting air. In this way it is insured that an effective torque
exists during reversal, thus preventing the sticking of the engine. Stops
are fitted to prevent the starting lever being used before the reversing lever
is hard over. Similarly, the reversing lever can only be moved when the
starting lever is shut off. When the starting lever is shut off the fuel
pumps for the corresponding cylinder group are similarly shut off, and
fuel can only be drawn when the starting lever is moved in.
The hand levers for starting and reversing, for the fuel supply, the in-
jection air pressure, air pump, and lubricating oil pressure regulators are all
placed at the control platform.
Any type of Diesel oil can be used as fuel. With coal tar oil or viscous
high ignition point oils, heating of the oil is necessary in conjunction with the
use of the ignition-oil method of starting up. The specific fuel consump-
tion at full load amounts to 180 g/b.h.p./hour (0.457 lb.) with fuel of a
calorific value of 10,000 k. cal./kg. (18,000 B.Th.U. per lb.). The lubricat-
ing oil consumption amounts to between 0.6 and 0.9 g./b.h.p./hour. Alto-
gether some twenty engines of the above type are at present under construc-
tion for German, Swedish, Dutch, and Italian owners.
ORDNANCE
Gunnery in the Battle of Jutland
By Hector C. Bywater, Baltimore Sun, 30 July, 1925.--London, July 20.-
Although to the general public the Battle of Jutland is ancient history
now, it still remains a subject of lively debate in service circles everywhere.
Early descriptions of the battle have fallen into discredit, for they were
written when the evidence was meager and conflicting, and are therefore
full of inaccuracies. Even Lord Jellicoe's version in his book, The Grand
Fleet, is no longer accepted as authoritative, since it omits all mention of
some of the most important German maneuvers that were executed during
the combat.
High praise is awarded by many British critics to the study of Jutland
which appears in Captain Frothingham's new volume of World War naval
history, although the author, as an American, maintains a perfectly impar-


  p. 1781 (#713)                      #

1925)
1781
Professional Notes
tial attitude, and distributes praise or censure without regard to national
susceptibilities. He has certainly contrived to draw the clearest picture of
Jutland that has come under my notice, and I have waded through a vast
amount of British and German literature on this topic.
From the viewpoint of tactical leadership, the most arresting feature of
the battle was the masterly way in which the German Admiral Scheer
handled his fleet. Three times in succession did he swing the whole force
round by a maneuver (Kehrtwendung) which the British commander had
deemed impossible. In this way he was able to extricate his feet from a
most dangerous position, leaving his opponent completely baffled.
In the German naval staff history of Jutland, published last month, the
escape of the high sea fleet is attributed partly to ineffective British gun-
nery. The same theme is developed on rather sensational lines by an article
in the latest issue of the Marine Rundschau, the German semi-official re-
view. The author, Captain Punt, of the German Navy, submits some very
striking figures taken from official sources. His contention is that British
naval gunnery was inferior not only at Jutland but in every engagement of
the war.
He begins by drawing a contrast between the actions of Coronel and the
Falklands. In the former battle the Germans had an advantage in number
of big guns, but weather conditions were unfavorable for good shooting.
In spite of this handicap the Scharnhorst and Gneisenau sank the Good
Hope and Monmouth in less than an hour, while they themselves received
only a few superficial hits.
But, if Captain Punt were an impartial critic, he would have mentioned
that the British ships were old, their guns of low power and their crews
largely composed of raw recruits and elderly reservists, whereas the Ger-
man ships had been in commission several years and had taken all the
Kaiser's gunnery prizes on the China station.
At the Falklands, where the British superiority in weight of gunfire and
speed was overwhelming, it took hours to destroy the Scharnhorst and
Gneisenau, which scored a great many hits on their opponents before going to
the bottom. In view of the disparity between the forces engaged it certainly
is remarkable that the German squadron should have survived so long.
At the Dogger Bank action in January, 1915, five British battle cruisers,
mounting forty big guns of 13.5 and 12-in. caliber, were opposed to three
similar German ships armed with twenty-eight guns of 11 and 12 in., and the
armored cruiser Blücher, carrying only 8-in. guns. In this fight, it is claimed,
the Germans inflicted twenty hits and received only six, apart from those
suffered by the Blücher when, after being disabled, she became the target
for concentrated fire at close range.
Here again, however, Captain Punt suppresses some important facts-
namely, that the Blücher was knocked out by a British shell fired at 18,000
yards and that the Seydlitz had two turrets wrecked and 150 men killed by
one shell, also fired at extreme range.
Coming to Jutland, he reminds us that in the initial stage Beatty had six
battle cruisers with forty-eight big guns, against five German ships with
forty-four guns, mainly of smaller caliber. The Germans began hitting
first, and in less than an hour had sunk two British battle cruiesrs and
damaged two others, while they themselves received only ten hits, none of
which caused serious injury. In this phase the total number of hits re-
ceived is given as follows: British, 36; German, 10.
Each successive phase of the battle is then reviewed, and it is shown how
at one period only did the Germans receive more punishment than they gave,
this being due to the British use of the Scott firing director, a device which
the German fleet did not at that time possess.
There is no doubt that the Germans shot splendidly in this fight, es-
pecially their battle cruisers. They got onto the target almost at once,


  p. 1782 (#714)                      #

1782
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
holding it under fire with rapid salvos that pitched close together with
little or no "spread.” Often the four shells of one salvo would crash
home together in a British ship, and when that occurred the effect was
usually catastrophic.
The appalling destructiveness of German shells was not the least singular
feature of the battle. Three British battle cruisers and two armored cruisers
were sunk outright after short bursts of fire and a third armored cruiser
was so cruelly punished that she had to be left to founder. On the other
hand, the German ships seemed proof against the heaviest hammering. It
is clear that the British projectiles were lacking in efficiency, either through
defective fuses or an unsuitable bursting charge.
At Jutland the British feet fired 4,598 heavy projectiles and the Ger-
man fleet 3,597, the percentage of hits being, respectively, 2.17 and 3.33. On
the British side the heaviest guns were 15-in., the majority being 13.5-in.
The Germans had nothing larger than 12-in. and a third of their ships had
only Il-in. guns.
Regarded as a gunnery test, Jutland was undeniably a success for the
Germans. Whether their brilliant shooting was due to better material or
better methods of training, or to a combination of both, is an open question.
It is acknowledged that their range-finding instruments were much superior
to the British.
In the sphere of naval gunnery the latter appear to have concentrated
on quantity, the Germans on quality. The British Navy, on the outbreak of
the war, was still permeated with the doctrines of Lord Fisher, who made
a fetish of mere bigness—the biggest ships, the biggest guns. But, he had
a sublime disregard for detail, which was precisely where the Germans
excelled.
If the percentage of hits at Jutland, as given above, is correct, it offers
food for thought. At Santiago in 1898 the American percentage is said
to have been 1.4. At Tsushima the Japanese percentage was claimed as
3.2. If the next naval battle is fought out at anything above 20,000 yards a
lower percentage may be looked for, despite the improvement in fire-control
methods.
All of which imparts an air of unreality to discussions on gun elevation
which postulate a decisive range of 25,000 yards or more.
MERCHANT MARINE
World's Shipbuilding Touches Lowest Level Since the War
The Nautical Gazette, 18 July, 1925.—A new low record in world ship-
building since the late war is shown by returns covering all maritime coun-
tries for the quarter ended June 30 last, says a statement just issued by Lloyd's
Register of Shipping. Increases in tonnage orders in the past quarter, as
compared with the previous one, shown by the shipyards of the United States,
Italy, Japan, and some of the smaller shipbuilding nations. were more than
offset by the decreases in Great Britain and Ireland, Germany, France,
Holland and Denmark. The general contrast between the two last quarters
is shown by the following table, the figures representing gross tons of
shipping :
June 30, 1925 March 31, 1925
United States..
92,001
81,728
Great Britain and Ireland ............ 1,093,587 1,165,468
Other countries ....
.. 1,184,243 1,149,714
World Total .....
.....
2,369,831 2,396,910
The previous low mark, of September 30, 1923, showed a total of ap-
proximately 99,000 gross tons for the United States, 1,271,000 tons for


  p. 1783 (#715)                      #

1925]
1783
Professional Notes
Great Britain and Ireland, and 1,007,000 tons for all other countries com-
bined, making the world total at that period, 2,377,000 tons, so that the
present decline from that figure is not a sharp one. It compares, however,
with 2,616,000 gross tons for June 30, 1924, since which time the decline
has been a steady one.
But, Lloyd's Register points out, the decrease is accompanied by a
falling off in orders for steam tonnage. Once again, the figures for con-
struction of vessels equipped with internal-combustion engines show an
advance, so that now almost 50 per cent of the world's shipbuilding is com-
posed of motor vessels. In Great Britain and Ireland motorships represent
36.5 per cent of the total construction, while the figure for other maritime
countries is 57-3 per cent, making the proportion for all countries combined
47.7 per cent, as compared with 42 per cent for the quarter ended March
31 last, and only 28 per cent a year prior to that. The tonnage of motorships
building during the past two quarters compares as follows, in gross tons:
June 30, 1925 March 31, 1925
Great Britain and Ireland ......
399,070
359,920
Other countries .....
730,842 661,711
World total ........
1,129,912 1,021,631
It will be noticed that, while on construction of all kinds, Great Britain
and Ireland's share is nearly half the world's total, they are constructing
only a little more than a third of the total motor tonnage.
According to the returns, the construction work being done in all coun-
tries under supervision of Lloyd's Register, and intended to be classed with
that Society, aggregates 1,587,386 gross tons, of which 876,143 tons represent
orders contracted for in Great Britain and Ireland. Lloyd's, therefore, is
supervising more than two thirds of the world's shipbuilding, and more than
80 per cent of that in Great Britain and Ireland. Both percentages show a
gain over those for the previous quarter.
A new feature of Lloyd's returns gives additional evidence of the develop-
ment of the motorship. Data showing the indicated horsepower of marine
engines now building or being installed throughout the world shows that
out of a total of 1,721,378 i.h.p., 353,144 represents the aggregate for steam
turbines; 559,970 for reciprocating steam engines, and 808,264 for motor
propulsion. The indicated horsepower for motor driven vessels is, therefore,
only 100,000 i.h.p. less than for steam turbines and steam engines combined.
The outlook for an increase in the world's shipbuilding industry is not
brightened by the returns showing the contrast between new orders begun
and tonnage launched. Another sign of depression is seen in the fact that
of the 1,093,000 gross tons of orders with the shipyards of Great Britain
and Ireland, suspension of work has been ordered on 76,000 tons.
The comparison between new orders and launchings of steamers and
motor vessels is not quite so pronounced, however, for the quarter just ended
as for the previous one. During the three months ending June 30, launchings
exceeded new work begun by 171,000 gross tons, while during the three pre-
ceding months, ships sent down the ways exceeded those on which work
was started by more than 210,000 tons. The comparative launchings for the
two periods were as follows, in gross tons :
June 30, 1925 March 31, 1925
Great Britain and Ireland .....
297,517
338,790
Other countries
295,770
267,431
World total
593,287 606,221
The sharp decrease in the amount of tonnage launched by British ship-
yards contrasts with the increase for other countries. This decrease for


  p. 1784 (#716)                      #

1784
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Great Britain and Ireland and increases for the other maritime nations is
also apparent in the comparative figures of new work commenced during the
two quarters, as shown in the following table of gross tonnage:
June 30, 1925 March 31, 1925
Great Britain and Ireland ............ 187,445
198,152
Other countries ..... ............ 234,669
196,818
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
World total ....
422,114
394,970
During the quarter recently ended, therefore, while the shipyards of Great
Britain and Ireland launched slightly more tonnage than all other countries
together, the new work secured by the British yards was 47,000 gross tons
less than for the other shipbuilding nations, while in the previous quarter,
Great Britain and Ireland led in both launchings and new work.
One direction in which Great Britain and Ireland gained during the last
quarter, while other countries fell back, was that of tanker construction. It
is also noted by Lloyd's Register, in this connection, that while no tankers
were reported to be building in the United States during the first three
months of this year, 9,500 gross tons are now stated to be under way there.
The gains of the shipyards of Great Britain and Ireland during the quarter
ended June 30 were 43,000 tons, while the other nations combined showed a
decrease of about 23,000 tons, as indicated by the following table of gross
tonnage:
June 30, 1925 March 31, 1925
Great Britain and Ireland .............. 165,467 122,128
Other countries ............
.... 206,800
230,015
World total ....................... 372,267
352,143
Little change was recorded in the ranking of the various shipbuilding
nations during the past quarter. France, which stood third during the first
quarter of the year, changed places with Italy, which had ranked fourth.
The United States, which had been in seventh position, just ahead of Japan
and behind Denmark, moved up to the latter's place and is now sixth, while
Japan, which was 42,000 tons behind Denmark in the March quarter, is now
only 19,000 tons behind. Lloyd's shows the comparative standings in tonnage
for the quarter, noting a gain for the group of smaller shipbuilding countries
of about 25,000 tons, as indicated in the following table:
June 30, 1925 March 31, 1925
Great Britain and Ireland
1,093,587 1,165,468
Germany ..
407,366
420,860
Italy ......
212,798
164,023
France .......
169,485
187,437
Holland ....
100,682
119,908
United States
92,001
81,728
Denmark
78,061
83,794
Japan .........
59.740
41,755
Other countries.
156,131
131,937
World total .....
.... 2,369,831 2,396,910
The gain made by the United States brings American shipyards only
8,000 gross tons behind the Dutch, who in the first quarter of this year had
a lead over the United States of 38,000 tons.
The proportionate division of shipbuilding now, as compared with a year
ago, is as follows:
Great Britain and Ireland: A decline from 58 per cent to 46 per cent;
Germany, a gain from 12 to 17 per cent; the United States, unchanged at


  p. 1785 (#717)                      #

1925)
1785
Professional Notes
about 4 per cent; other countries combined, an advance from about 26 to 33
per cent. The volume of motorships on order now is 319,000 gross tons
greater than at June 30, 1924, and tanker construction shows a gain of
192,000 tons, being more than double the total for a year ago.
The World's Merchant Shipping
Engineering, 10 July, 1925.—A fitting opportunity is afforded for a review
of the world's merchant shipping by the appearance of the new annual
edition of Lloyd's Register of Shipping. As the Register contains particu-
lars of all the sea-going vessels of 100 tons and upwards, it would be a
tedious task to attempt an analysis of the records, given in alphabetical
order, of the 33,000 vessels of various types which come under this cate-
gory; but fortunately this is rendered unnecessary by the inclusion in the
Register of an admirable series of statistical tables, in which the char-
acteristics of the ships are classified in a variety of ways.
In commenting on the previous edition of the Register, in our issue of
July 18, 1924, we noted an actual decrease of upwards of 1,000,000 tons in
the total merchant shipping, owned in all parts of the world, in the course
of the preceding twelve months, but the corresponding figure for the
period now under review shows a net increase of 617,851 tons. This figure
includes sailing vessels, which in themselves show a decrease of 248,385 tons,
and as this type of craft is relatively unimportant, a more representative
figure is given by considering steam and motor tonnage only, in which
case the increase amounts to 866,236 tons. In view of the continuance
of the world-wide shipping depression which has marked the last few years,
this figure is somewhat unexpected, and cannot fail to give rise to specula-
tion. When commenting on the reduction in the total in the previous
year, we suggested that it was due to the circumstance that the prevailing
low freights had caused shipowners to dispose of large quantities of in-
efficient tonnage for breaking up, and that the continual general depression
of the shipping industry had delayed the construction of tonnage for re-
placement purposes. We are not aware that either freights had appreciably
improved or that the depression has become noticeably less acute since
that date, and the explanation of the change over from a decrease to an
increase must be sought elsewhere. The main increases in ships of all types
have been, in the case of Great Britain and Ireland, 33,873 tons, in that of
Italy 196,449 tons, and in that of Norway 175,249 tons. On the other hand,
the tonnage of the United States has suffered a very considerable reduction,
amounting as it does to some 579,000 tons less than it was twelve months ago.
It is probable that the policy of scrapping inefficient tonnage has reached
its economic limit, and that the low price obtainable for vessels to be broken
up has resulted in a considerable tonnage being laid up by the owners in
preference to being scrapped. This supposition is to some extent borne out
by the fact that the most recent returns show a decided falling off in the
amount of tonnage withdrawn for breaking up. At the best, this factor can
only account for an absence of further reductions, and the increase remains
to be explained. If we confine our attention to the case of Great Britain
and Ireland, we find that the reduction in ships of all types was 175,711
tons for the year ending June, 1924, and, as stated, this has been converted
into an increase of 334,873 in the year just ended. In commenting on the
world's shipbuilding in our issue of January 23 last, we mentioned that there
was a great increase in tonnage launched in 1924 as compared with 1923,
due to improvements in the figures for British yards. We pointed out,
however, that much of the building had been undertaken at prices which
admitted of little or no profit, and that in some cases it had actually been
undertaken at a loss. The actual increase of the year's production was
604,570 tons, and a large proportion of this was to the order of British


  p. 1786 (#718)                      #

1786
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
firms. It would thus appear that shipowners have been in a position to
profit by the unusual economic conditions prevailing in the shipbuilding
yards, and in this way to strengthen their fleets by the addition of vessels of
the latest type. Considerable doubt may be felt about the economic soundness
of such a state of affairs from a national standpoint, but with this we are
not concerned at the moment. One of the results will certainly be to place
British shipowners in a favorable position to obtain their fair share of in-
creased trade, which may be looked forward to with some confidence in view
of the more hopeful prospects of a return to stability in central Europe.
This increase in the efficiency of the mercantile marine is not confined
to the British Isles, as is shown by the considerable increase which has
taken place generally in recent years in the number of sea-going steamers
and motorships of relatively large tonnage. Confining our attention to
vessels of both types of 4,000 tons or over, it is mentioned in the register
that there were 3,608 such vessels in 1914, whereas today the figure reaches
6,060. If these figures are further examined, is is found that of the latter
number, 356 are of 10,000 tons or over, while 36 are of 20,000 tons and up-
wards. It is satisfactory to note that of the 356 vessels of 10,000 tons
or over, no less than 211 are under the British flag. The group of vessels
which form the largest tonnage is that between 4,000 and 6.000 tons each.
This group totals 17,768,634 tons, equal to 28.5 per cent of the total steam
and motor tonnage of the world. It is interesting to note that the largest
liners, of 15,000 tons each and upwards, only represent some 3.4 per cent of
the total.
Considerable attention was devoted at the meeting of the Institution of
Naval Architects, held in London in April last, to the relative overall
efficiency of oil and steam-engined vessels, but as this subject was discussed
in our columns as recently as June 12 last, we do not propose to comment on
it here. As illustrating the growing size and commercial importance of
motorships, it may be noted that 264 are of 4,000 tons and upwards. Forty-
three of these are of 8,000 tons and upwards, the total tonnage of the latter
amounting to 441,520 tons. Dealing with the figures for the last twelve
months, the tonnage of motorships has increased by 738,000; of vessels
fitted with steam turbines by 305,000; while that of vessels fitted with re-
ciprocating steam engines has decreased by 152,000. Of the two alternative
types of transmission, a total tonnage of 440,000 is now fitted with a combina-
tion of steam turbines and reciprocating engines, while thirty-six vessels,
with a total tonnage of 110,000, are fitted with electric transmission, this
figure including both the steam turbine and Diesel engine as the prime mover.
Of the 3,490 steamers of 17,804,122 tons fitted for burning oil fuel, 730,
of 4,679,695 tons, are registered in Great Britain and Ireland, and 1,855, of
8,999,050 tons, are registered in the United States.
A table classifying all existing steamers and motorships according to age,
shows that there are 4,003 vessels less than five years old, their tonnage
representing just under 21 per cent of the total in existence. There is thus
a very large bulk of relatively inefficient tonnage still on the register,
and it is reasonable to suppose that a revival in trade would lead to a very
appreciable portion of this tonnage being scrapped, to the great advantage of
ship builders. Some of the statistics in relation to the older ships are of
considerable interest. Thus it appears that there are over 7,000 vessels of
twenty-five or more years old still in service, this figure including over
1,000,000 tons of wood and composite steamers. The general increase in
the size of tonnage to which we have referred is reflected in the fact that of
the vessels built in 1900 or before, nearly 65 per cent are of less than 1,000
tons each, the average size of the remainder being 2,705 tons; while of the
vessels built during the last five years, only about 33 per cent are of less
than 1,000 tons each, the average for the remainder reaching 4.708 tons. Of
a proportion of tonnage less than five years old, Germany has 50.6 per


  p. 1787 (#719)                      #

1925]
1787
Professional Notes
cent, Holland 33.5 per cent, France 27 per cent, Denmark 26.7 per cent,
and Great Britain and Ireland 25.5 per cent.
Merchant Ship Subsidy Systems
By Cary W. Cook, Chairman, American-Hawaiian Steampship Company,
The Nautical Gazette, 25 July, 1925.—The legitimate function of a ship is to
transport goods at a rate that will enable those who send the goods by
her to carry out their business at a profit. At the same time the ship must
be operated so efficiently and cheaply that whatever the goods pay in freight
money will be enough to cover the cost of operation and to set aside a certain
sum annually to be used in building another ship when she herself is past
her efficient life.
So far as there is any record, the business of shipowning has been done
by those who have found in that a better return than shore occupations
afforded. The high rank of Norway as a shipping nation is due to the
seafaring qualities of her people, to her geographic location, and to the
fact that because of her limited industrial development, merchant shipping
offers greater financial rewards and better opportunities for the employ-
ment of her people. The conditions in our New England States where
American shipping originated were very similar, but with the opening of the
West and almost unlimited opportunities on the land, we gave up our
shipping and left the carriage of our goods to those who were less for-
tunately situated and who were content with a smaller return. We were
not less patriotic than now. Shipping didn't pay. Those who took up our
shipping when we cast it aside have been continuously at it and neither
England, Norway, Sweden, nor Holland have ever paid, nor do they now
pay, any subsidy to cargo carriers and they are the leading maritime nations.
France has made frequent and costly experiments with various forms of
subsidies without accomplishing the results hoped for and is not considered
a maritime nation. Her subsidy systems have been used as models by Italy,
Austria, Hungary and Spain; none of these are considered maritime nations.
Japan in 1896 instituted a liberal subsidy policy under a law resembling
in many respects the subsidy laws of France. The fact that the merchant
marine of Japan has developed very rapidly since the institution of the sub-
sidy policy has been attributed by many to the liberal state aid which it has
received, but account should be taken of the fact that Japan has had a re-
markable industrial and commercial development during this period. Al-
though the principal Japanese steamship companies have been in receipt of
government aid since 1888 and have developed rapidly, their financial state-
ments for recent years show that they have not gotten beyond the need for
financial assistance from the state.
Those countries which have been driven by necessity to the sea and which
have relied upon individual enterprise and self-reliance rather than on
government bounty are today successful in shipping. Those countries which
do other things better and find them easier and which do not go to sea unless
guaranteed a profit by the state, hold an inferior maritime position. Bel-
gium, which has a very large overseas trade, has been content to have
most of this trade carried in foreign bottoms by those who could do it the
cheapest and put her in a position to compete. To promote the export of
agricultural products, Denmark for a number of years paid a substantial
subsidy to lines operating to England, but withdrew it under the fear of
retaliation.
It would seem that subsidizing cargo carriers would be in defiance of
demonstrated failures and must lead to commercial unfriendliness curtailing
our foreign trade. It may even lead to retaliation, affecting seriously our
industrial, cargo carriers. It is upon these industrial ships that we must
place our reliance for the foundation of an American merchant marine in


  p. 1788 (#720)                      #

1788
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
the foreign trade. Our first shipowners were primarily merchants who
themselves furnished the cargoes or foundations for them and provided
space for the more or less small ventures of others. The lines or public
carriers were an outgrowth. The movement is being revived. The lumber
mills of this coast always had their own fleets of sailing ships. The oil
companies, owing to the nature of their cargoes, were forced to provide their
own tankers. The steel companies first of all chartered to bring ore from
abroad and have expanded into ownership and the transportation of their
finished product. Our most prominent automobile manufacturer is trying
out the plan of his own ships. The ownership of vessels by large industries
is capable of great expansion and will expand unless some of the lines tem-
porarily hurt by this competition should more insistently and definitely de-
mand regulation.
Even carefully considered regulation, together with full details worked
out in advance of any law providing for it, will surely impair the service to
the small shipper who must, without sufficient cargo at one time, depend
altogether on the line. Hasty, ill-considered regulatory legislation will,
until effective regulation of ships is found impossibe, nullify all the ad-
vantages otherwise to be had from water competition. Nations have gone to
war and will again go to war to gain access to the sea and all the natural
advantages growing out of such access and if we, with a coastline on
four seas, shall nullify that advantage by attempted regulation we will for-
feit our birthright and, instead of service born of free competition, will
descend to a self-satisfied mediocrity in the protected coastwise trade and
disappear from foreign waters.
The greatest danger to the industry from state aid is that such aid carries
with it government meddling. The man who puts up the money always wants
to know how it is being spent. Even mail subventions, which differ from
subsidies in that they require a definite service in return, carry with them
regulation and in some cases participation by the government.
The Austria Lloyd contract provides that three members of the board of
directors, including the chairman, shall be nominated by the government
and that all freight and passenger tariffs shall be submitted to the Minister
of Commerce for approval and that the government shall share in the net
earnings above 6 per cent, and so forth. The French Government contracts
give practically as much control. The Japanese lines give the government as
much control as it is possible to give over privately owned lines. The
tendency is strongly toward a division of profits above a fair return on the
investment and the requirements are very exacting. One government re-
quires that it be consulted in regard to arrangement of routes, ports of call,
number of voyages to be made and time of voyage.
It is true, and it is no wonder, that the White Star Line, which has
never received aid of any kind from the British Government and which has
been a competitor of the Cunard Line in the transatlantic trade, has been
far more successful as an earner of dividends than has its subsidized rival,
This is true also of the Anchor Line, the Leyland Line, and the Red Star
Line in the same trade.
Mail subventions are granted principally to insure close communication
between the mother countries and their colonies. We are not a colonizing
nation and our efforts along the line of subventions have been somewhat
spasmodic and lacked definite purpose. No one has cared to risk his
money to establish a costly line of steamers based on a subsidy or subven-
tion which might be withdrawn at the whim of the political party in power.
With a definite policy and mail contracts for a period long enough to
amortize the vessel, it is quite within the probabilities that private capital
would undertake fast mail and passenger lines on major routes.
The argument that we need for the national defense a merchant marine
in the foreign trade is open to question. There has been no publicly ex-


  p. 1789 (#721)                      #

1925]
1789
Professional Notes
pressed opinion from the Army and Navy upon it, and if it really is true,
it would seem an easy thing for those charged with the national defense,
to select from the left-overs of the late war such ships as are required
for purposes of defense only, and thereafter take care of them and put the
expense where it belongs rather than continue losses of a million dollars
a week of tax money, under the delusion that our attempt to create a
merchant marine by law is justified by the doctrine of national defense.
There are approximately nine million gross tons of American ships in the
American coastwise trade. These coasters gave a good account of them-
selves in the late war and the fleet is better now than then. The definite
policy of the United States reserving the coasting trade to its own vessels
will not only preserve and expand this fleet without aid or regulation but,
what is of more importance, preserve our shipyards, which have already
given evidence of an almost unbelievable power to meet emergencies anü
with removal of the absurd prohibition against transfer of the flag can un-
doubtedly build for foreign account.
There has been so much sentiment interwoven in all discussions of
shipping that the real functions of the ship have been lost sight of or
obscured by hampering the record with insistence that each petty annoyance
shall be cured by legislation. There is no serious artificial obstacle to an
American Merchant Marine. The impassable barrier is that other things
pay better and, whenever American ships become a necessity and, therefore,
profitable, American ships will be provided. There are laws now which pre-
vent progress. Chiefest of these are the Shipping Act of 1916 and the
Merchant Marine Act of 1920. A few of my shipowning friends and my-
self devoted much time, labor, and all the ability vouchsafed us by the
Almighty's endowment of brains, to revise these two laws. The result was
embodied in the Shipping Act of 1924, which is momentarily in seclusion
owing to the more ambitious program of the shipping associations, but
it is far from dead and provides the practical man's solution of an intensely
practical question. It will, I think, be seriously considered by the next
Congress. It conforms to this declaration of a National Merchant Marine
· Policy:
It is necessary for the national defense that the United States shall have
a merchant marine sufficient to carry all of its domestic commerce and serve
as a naval or military auxiliary in time of war or national emergency.
It is desirable for the national defense that the United States shall have
upon the major trade routes between United States ports and foreign ports
combination passenger and freight lines with vessels of sufficient speed
to enable them to effectively compete with foreign lines in the carriage of
the mails and to serve as troop transports in time of war. Such ships to
be compensated by liberal mail subventions. Any other form of aid, whether
in the form of cash subsidy, discriminating duties, free Canal tolls, or the
like, inevitably and invariably leads to a dependence on Federal paternalism
in a field where individual courage and independence are demanded, and
should not be granted.
It has been found by some of our large industries desirable to own their
own cargo vessels in the foreign trade and this should be encouraged.
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the United States to encourage
the maintenance by private owners of such a merchant marine, assuring to
owners freedom from regulation or competition, direct or indirect, by the
government. It is recognized that to maintain and expand a merchant
marine the art of shipbuilding shall not be lost or impaired and that Ameri-
can shipyards must be encouraged to maintain themselves in a position to
again rapidly expand to meet any national emergency. To that end no ves-
sels except those wholly built and equipped ready for sea in American yards
shall be permitted to trade between ports of the United States except the
trade between United States ports and the Philippine Islands.


  p. 1790 (#722)                      #

1790
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Except in time of war or national emergency there shall be no restric-
tion upon :
Building for foreign owners.
Sale of American ships abroad.
Selling securities of shipowners or shipbuilders abroad as long as the
management through ownership of a majority of the capital stock of
building and owning corporations is in the hands of American citizens.
If, under laws passed or to be passed in furtherance of the above-
declared policy, American shipowners enter the foreign trade with purely
cargo vessels, they will be encouraged as far as consistent with the proper
growth of our foreign trade; but it must be recognized that ships alone do
not make foreign commerce and sentimantal regard for American ships in
the foreign trade must not interfere with the more important consideration
of placing the exporters of our surplus in position to cultivate the friend-
ship of foreign buyers, themselves shipowners, and to take advantage of as
low freight rates as our competitors enjoy through free competition of
foreign ships.
Ford's Bid for Scrap Ships Recommended for Acceptance
The Nautical Gazette, 25 July, 1925.—The Ford bid of $1,706,000 for the
200 Shipping Board vessels for scrap has been recommended by President
Palmer of the Fleet Corporation for acceptance. The suggestion in the Ford
Company's bid that there be substituted for some of the ships included in
the offer certain other vessels located north of the James River, was dis-
approved by Admiral Palmer on the ground that the government would
have to go to the expense of arranging for transportation of these sub-
stituted vessels, and, also, because of the possibility of other higher bids
having been tendered had these ships been included in the list as originally
advertised.
The automobile manufacturer's bid was the second highest proposal in
actual amount received as the Ocean Power Company, of Bar Harbor,
Maine, bid $2,244,000 for the 200 ships but no check accompanied the bid,
which was said to rule it out of consideration for failure to comply with
the terms of the advertisement requiring a deposit of 10 per cent of the
proposed purchase price with cach tender.
Formal protest against any action on the new bids by the Shipping Board
was filed by the Boston Iron and Metal Company, of Baltimore, on the
ground that, under the original advertisement for the sale of the ships, the
board should only negotiate with the original bidders; that the board should
not have made public the original bids unless it was going to accept or
reject them and that it was unfair and inequitable to make public prices of
the June 30 opening and then call for new bids. General Council Chauncey
Parker of the Shipping Board, however, has upheld the proceedings of the
board incident to the receipt of the Ford bid.
A summary of the bids opened July 16 follows:
The Ford Motor Company, of Detroit, $1,706,000 for the entire 200 ships
for scrapping.
A. V. Wilson, president, the Ocean Power Company, of Bar Harbor,
Maine, $2,244,000 for the entire 200 ships, but no check accompanied the bid.
The General Metals Supply Company, of San Francisco, three different
bids for 50 ships, at prices ranging from $4,287 each to $5,226 each for
complete scrapping and from $4,537 to $5,476 for partial scrapping; for
21 ships, from $3,800 to $5,027 for comlete scrapping and from $4,100
to $4,800 for partial scrapping; and for 40 ships, from $4,287 to $6,415 for
complete scrapping and from $4,537 to $6,815 for partial scrapping.


  p. 1791 (#723)                      #

1925)
1791
Professional Notes
The Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Comany, $808,100 for
139 ships.
The Hickman-Williams Company, of Philadelphia, $92,860 or $7,905 for
each of twelve ships.
August A. Weber and Dan Robins, of Buffalo, $650,000 for the entire
200 ships for scrapping.
The Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company, $808,100 for
130 ships.
The Hickman-Williams Company, of Philadelphia, $94,860 or $7,905 for
cach of 12 ships.
N. Block and Company, of Norfolk, Virginia, for 25 ships at prices
ranging from $4,030 to $4,777 each.
A. Douglas Gibson, of Washington, on behalf of J. T. Knight and Son,
of Columbus, Georgia, $5,500 each for 29 ships.
The Sun Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company, of Chester, Pennsylvania,
$6,800 for five ships and $5,800 for five ships for complete scrapping or
$29,000 for the ten ships for partial scrapping
B. R. Stafford, of New York, $20,000 for two ships for operation, re-
submitted.
Hart Enterprise Electric Company, of New Orleans, $3,695 each for two
ships, resubmitted, no check.
American Ship Wrecking Corporation, $2,000 each for three ships, re-
submitted.
In addition an offer was made by Frank Harrisons Company, of Chicago,
to scrap the 200 ships, guaranteeing the government a minimum of $1,250.000
from the sale of the scrap and 50 per cent of the money realized from
the scrap above that amount.
The Ford Company agrees to scrap the ships within the continental
limits of the United States within eighteen months of delivery of the ves-
sels, agrees that none of the machinery shall be put onto the market, but
reserves the right to use of any of the machinery from the ships in its
own factories and plants.
The Ford Company reserved the right to Dieselize any of the ships of
design number 1023 which are included in the 200 for salt water navigation.
There are 50 of these vessels, which are oil-burners and range from 5,070
to 5,340 deadweight tons. Of the 50 there are 19 located at New York,
19 in the James River, and 12 at Philadelphia.
Scrapping Shipping Board Ships
The Nautical Gazette, i August, 1925.—Another statement equally mis-
leading is attributed in the press to Senator Duncan U. Fletcher. of Florida.
Senator Fletcher takes occasion to discuss the Shipping Board's action in
the matter of the sale of two hundred ships for scrap and to inject some
severe criticisms of the board's decision. He takes the view that the
board is without power, under the law, to scrap ships unless they are unfit
for sea service. Somebody has told Senator Fletcher that the two hundred
ships offered for sale for scrap are not unfit for service, that they are being
well preserved at low cost, and that they could be placed in commission
on short notice at slight expense. The Senator goes on to state that it is
costing $750 a year to maintain the ships, and that they will be as good
ten or fifteen years from now as they are today. All of this is contrary to
the real facts. A survey by experts of the Shipping Board's fleet last
year revealed that there were 521 ships which would never be of any
commercial value, therefore, 200 can easily be scrapped and still leave
margin in the event that any additional ships above those now in service and
those being held as a first and second reserve should be required. Figures
of the Fleet Corporation show that the total cost of caring for the laid-up


  p. 1792 (#724)                      #

1792
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
fleets is $2,700,000 per year, or an average of $3,000 per ship, which is a long
way from Senator Fletcher's estimate of $750 per ship. To say that the
vessels will be as good ten or fifteen years from now is tantamount to an
admission of ignorance of ships. It is true that the vessels may be in
almost as good a physical condition as they are today, but in comparison
with the merchant vessels of ten or fifteen years hence they will be hope-
lessly obsolete. Marine engineering and naval architecture are not sta-
tionary arts; they are progressive, and with the rapid development of direct
Diesel and Diesel-electric driven ships the vessel of today which is con-
sidered suitable only for scrap will be completely outclassed fifteen years
from now, and will be out of the running in competition with modern ships
of other nations. Above all things, the American merchant marine must be
kept up to date if it is to compete successfully for world trade, and the re-
tention of ships that are only fit for scrap is an obstacle in the way of that
essential modernization.
MISCELLANEOUS
Submarine Cruisers
Engineering, 17 July, 1925.—At the meetings of the Association Tech-
nique Maritime et Aëronautique, held in Paris in May, a paper, entitled
"Submarine Cruisers," was presented by M. de Vito, the director of Naval
Construction of the Ansaldo Works, at Genoa. In his introductory re-
marks, the author stated that although from 1900 to 1914 the submarine was
in process of development in most navies, yet so far as its tactical and
strategical employment was concerned, it had not passed the experimental
stage. The vast majority of naval officers had little confidence in the type,
and only a few of the most thoughtful and progressive predicted a future
for it, and visualized some of its functions in a naval conflict. It was not
until September 23, 1914, that the faith of the few was fully justified,
and the responsible naval authorities were convinced of the important part
the submarine was likely to take in the world war. On this date, the Ger-
man submarine U-9 sank three cruisers of the Cressy class, and 1,500
officers and men lost their lives. From that date, the submarine proved itself
a most effective and dangerous weapon of war, and at times threatened to
jeopardize the cause of the Allies. M. de Vito expresses the opinion that
but for the continuous and increasing pressure of the Allies on land, and
the consequent break up of the enemy armies, the submarine would have
forced a victory for the Central Powers.
In August, 1914, one single type of submarine was afloat. Its armament
was the torpedo and its purpose the attack of enemy surface warships. As
the war progressed and the nature and magnitude of its naval problems be-
came more clearly defined, other types of submarines were developed and
purposes of which were as diverse as those of surface warships. The
gun and the mine were added to the torpedo in the armament of under-
water craft, and as experience was gained, the caliber of the former and the
number of mines which could be carried were both increased. At the
Armistice, in addition to the much improved type in existence at the out-
break of war, there were several others; the monitor submarine, the de-
stroyer, the mine-layer, fleet and cruiser submarines. One of the most
difficult post-war problems of the naval staffs of the powers was to de-
termine which of the types should be developed for future use and which
abandoned. The problem varied with the naval policy of the nation con-
cerned, and the decisions reached may be interpreted by the types which are
building and projected. In August, 1914, only a few expert officers possessed
the necessary knowledge to discuss such questions; now they must be de-
bated and determined by a far larger circle. For this reason, says M. de
Vito, submarine technique must be popularized, so that ideas on the subject


  p. 1793 (#725)                      #

1925)
1793
Professional Notes
shall be as clear as those for ordinary surface warships. His paper has
been written with that object in view.
The author next reviews the powers and weights of Diesel engines which
are suitable for the surface propulsion of submarines, and remarks in
passing that, as with surface ships, the dimensions and speeds of submarines
have increased with the power of the engine. He states that the most power-
ful engines of the submarine type yet constructed are the 3,000 h.p. Nurn-
burg, the 3,500 h.p. Sulzer and the 3,000 h.p. Tosi, but considers it is now
practicable to build an engine to develop 6,000 h.p. and mentions a report
that the Sulzer Company are constructing one of 7,000 brake horsepower.
The weights of submarine engines, with shafts, propellers and other neces-
sary gear, vary from 88 lb. to 99 lb. per horsepower, figures which compare
with 44 lb. for the propelling installations of light cruisers, 33 lb. for flotilla
leaders, 26 lb. for destroyers, 11 lb. for motorboats, and 2} lb, for aeroplane
engines. This comparison shows the submarine Diesel engine to be very
heavy, but it is not greatly different in this respect from those for merchant
ships or earlier cruisers. The fuel economy of the Diesel engine is neglected
in this comparison, although of importance from other points of view.
For submerged propulsion, the weight of the main motors and the bat-
teries from which they draw their power, is 220 lb. to 264 lb. per horsepower
developed normally. The distribution of the total weight or surface dis-
placement of a modern submarine is stated to be as follows: Hull structure,
fittings and fixed ballast, 58 per cent; crew with their effects, provisions
and fresh water, 2 per cent; armament, i.e., torpedoes and tubes, guns, and
charges, and so forth, 5 per cent; and fuel and lubricating oils 5 per cent.
The remaining 30 per cent of the surface displacement is represented by
the weight of the surface and submerged propelling installations.
Using the foregoing figures as a basis, and taking 25 h.p. to the ton for
surface and 10 h.p. for submerged propulsion, the author considers two
extreme cases. In the first, the 30 per cent of the surface displacement is
used for a submarine Diesel installation, and in the second it is entirely
utilized for motors and batteries for submerged propulsion. The two cases
are designated A and D, and assuming various surface displacements, the
resulting speeds are determined. The tables given above show the results.
From these figures, it is concluded that, in the present stage of Diesel
engine design, is is impracticable to obtain more than 25 knots, even when
submerged navigation is entirely sacrificed.
In calculating these speeds, the submerged displacement is taken as 25
per cent greater than the surface. The results show that submerged speed
is very costly, an increase in 1,000 tons of surface displacement being
necessary to obtain half a knot extra speed for the largest vessels. It is
concluded that 14 knots is the practical limit to submerged speed. In gen-
eral a maximum of 10 to 11 knots is specified for the ordinary types of
submarines.
Two further cases are next considered, these being more nearly in ac-
cordance with actual practice. The first, B, assumes that the power sub-
merged is one-half that on the surface, and the second, C, that the two are
equal. In both, the weights of the submerged and surface power installa-
tions are together taken as 30 per cent of the surface displacement.
A comparison of the speeds in the two tables shows that for submarines
above 1,200 tons displacement the surface speed is reduced by 21/2 knots to
obtain an increase of i knot of submerged speed.
The paper then proceeds to quote examples of actual submarines to illus-
trate the results obtained in the four tables. The first example is the British
R class, which are described as submarine destroyers, having been designed
with high submerged speed for rapidly approaching and destroying sub-
marines sighted on the surface. The published particulars of this class give


  p. 1794 (#726)                      #

1794
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
CASE A.-INTERNAL-COMBUSTION ENGINES ONLY
2,000
Surface displacement......... tons
Weight of power plant....
inverno
Approximate horsepower ...B.H.P.
Number of shafts.....
Maximum speed............knots |
500
150
3,750
1,500
450
1,000
300
7,500
2,500
750
18,750
600
15,000
3,000
900
22,500
11,250
3,500
1,050
26,250
4
25.8
4
20.8
22:5
23.4
24:3
24.9
25.4
CASE B.-POWER OF MOTORS EQUAL TO ONE-HALF OF THE DIESEL ENGINES
Surface displacemet. tons
Power on surface. . H.P.
Power submerged.. ”
Speed on surface. . knots
Speed submerged..
500
1,600
800
15.5
8.7
800
2,600
1,300
16.6
9.2
1,200
4,000
2,000
17.5
9:7
1,500
5,000
2,500
17.9
9.9
2,000
6,600
3,300
18:5
10.2
2,500
8,200
4,100
18.9
10.5
3,000
10,000
5,000
19.3
10.7
3,500 | 4,000
11,600 13,200
| 5,800 6,600
19.6 119.9
10.9 11:1
CASE C.-POWER OF MOTORS EQUAL TO THAT OF THE DIESEL ENGINES
800
700
| 1,200
2,600
1,500
3,200
2,000
4,300
2,500
5,400
3,000
6,500
3,500
7,500
4,000
8,600
Surface displacement.tons 500
Power on surface...h.p. 1,100
Power submerged..
Speed on surface. . knots 13.6
Speed submerged
9.6
14.3
10:1
15.1
10.5
15.4
17.0
16:0
11.1
16.4
11.5
16.7
11.7
17.3
12:1
10.8
11.9
CASE D.-ELECTRIC MOTORS AND BATTERIES ONLY
... ton
S
Surface displacement...
Weight of power plant (electric)..
Power of motors..
Submerged speed.
500
150
1,500
10.8
1,000
300
3,000
11.5
horsepower
......knots
2,000
600
6,000
12:5
3,000
900
9,000
13
4,000
1,200
12,000
13.5
5,000
1,500
15,000
13.9


  p. 1795 (#727)                      #

1925]
1795
Professional Notes
the surface displacement as 420 tons, surface power 240 h.p., submerged
power 1,200 h.p., surface speed 9/2 knots, and submerged speed 15 knots.
This type falls between cases C and D, being nearer the latter. According
to the table for case D, the maximum submerged speed for 420 tons surface
displacement should be about 107/2 knots. The author considers the reputed
speed of 15 knots to be impracticable, and that twice the power stated would
be required for such a speed. He states that 15 knots has never been ob-
tained. The difference between 10/2 and 15 knots is a large one to explain,
but probably a more efficient form than that assumed for the tables was
adopted by the British authorities. The paper states that the type has been
abandoned by the British Admiralty, but it is to be noted that two of the
class are mentioned as being in commission in the published official lists
of ships.
Submarine minelayers are next referred to, this type also falling between
cases C and D, but being nearer to the former. The 5 per cent for arma-
ment of the modern submarine is greatly exceeded in this type by the
weight and number of the mines, and this has the effect of reducing the
30 per cent for propelling installations to 25 and even 20 per cent. The
speeds, surface and submerged, are therefore smaller than are shown in
Table C. The following particulars of German minelaying submarines are
quoted:
Displacements
Tons
Powers
H.P.
Speeds
Knots
417
500
11.4
U.C. 16-79...
493
7.4
600
11.5
»
90-105...
620
10.5
»
74-80....
883
Between Cases B and C fall all submarines of the coastal or defensive
type which have been constructed, and particularly those of from 500 to
600 tons with 14 or 15 knots surface and 8 or 9 knots submerged speed.
This type is considered to have a great future, as it can be economically
constructed in large numbers. The new French Ariane class of 600 tons
surface and 765 tons submerged displacement, 1,300 h.p. surface and 1,000
h.p. submerged giving speeds of 14 and 9.5 knots, are quoted as examples.
In Class B is placed the ordinary submarine for offensive action—the
type afloat in August, 1914-having a displacement of 800 to 900 tons with
speeds of 16 and 9 knots surface and submerged. The French vessels of
the Requin class, now under construction, are the latest examples of this
type. Their displacements are 1,150 and 1,410 tons, horsepowers 2,900 and
1,800, and speeds 16 and 10 knots.
Between A and B comes the submarine cruiser, of which the German
U 142 class is stated to be the prototype. These were of 2,200 tons surface
displacement, engine of 6,000 h.p., and motors of 2,600 h.p. with corre-
sponding speeds of 17.8 and 8.5 knots, thus falling nearer to B than A. The
British XI, of 2,800 tons, is also placed in this category, and it is deduced
from the tables that, with this displacement and if fitted with Diesel engines,


  p. 1796 (#728)                      #

1796
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
the surface speed cannot exceed 21 or 22 knots. If the vessel falls exactly
under Class B the surface speed should be 19 knots and the horsepower
about 9,300. The projected V engeur class of 2,400 tons surface displace-
ment and 3,000 tons submerged, with speeds of 18 and i knots, is also
quoted as an example, and it is stated that, for the surface power plant of
these submarines, the French authorities are experimenting with light Diesel
engines to develop from 5,000 to 7,000 h.p.
M. de Vito next considers submarine cruisers at some length, and outlines
the general particulars of a design which the firm of Ansaldo has prepared.
He states that the number of guns to be mounted must be four at least, but
six or eight are preferable. With a limitation of 3,000 tons surface dis-
placement, 6-in. guns can be mounted, whereas for 8-in. guns the displace-
ment would reach 8,000 tons, an increase in size over present submarines
which no naval authorities would attempt. For such a displacement, four
shafts, each with an engine of 6,000 h.p., would give 21 knots.
In the preliminary design for a 3,000-ton vessel, Messrs. Ansaldo have
allowed for six 6-in. guns mounted in two triple turrets, these being entered
from the conning tower, whereas, according to M. de Vito, the two turrets
in the British XI are isolated from the tower. A secondary armament of
four 4-in, anti-aircraft guns in twin mountings is also arranged for in the
Italian design. These are installed on the superstructure above the triple
turrets. Four torpedo tubes at the bow and four at the stern are proposed,
making the total armament weights 450 tons, or 15 per cent of the surface
displacement. This largely increased percentage over the 5 per cent quoted
for the ordinary submarine necessitates economy in other directions.
Considering next the submerged speed and the power required to main-
tain it, the author argues that, since economy in weight is required to allow
for the heavier armament, a submerged speed of 4 or 5 knots with sufficient
battery endurance to maintain the speed during daylight, i.e., for 15 hours,
is all that is necessary. A radius of action of 60 miles at 4 knots is allowed
for in the design, necessitating a weight of motors and batteries of 240
tons, or 8 per cent of the displacement. The two motors, each of 1,000 h.p.,
are capable of an overload for a short time and weigh 20 tons each. The
maximum submerged speed that can be maintained for one hour is 742
knots, but if this were increased to 10 knots the weights would be augmented
by 110 tons to 160 tons.
The maximum surface speed of the design is 21 knots, and to attain this
speed two engines, each of 6,000 brake horsepower, are proposed. These
would be single-acting, four-cycle, six-cylinder engines of 25.6 in. stroke
and diameter and 330 r.p.m., each engine weighing 130 tons. The 3,000 h.p.
M.A.N. engine weighs 70 tons, and on this basis the estimate appears rea-
sonable. For the complete engine installation, 400 tons is the weight esti-
mated to be necessary. This gives 30 h.p. per ton, as compared with the
25 h.p. used in preparing the four tables, an indication of the greater econ-
omy in weight of the more powerful engines. The total weight of the two
propelling installations-surface and submerged—is thus 640 tons, or 21
per cent of the displacement. At a cruising speed of 10 knots, the designers
estimate the consumption of oil fuel to be about 60 lb, per nautical mile.
The total fuel allowed is 190 tons, giving a radius of action of 7,000 miles
at 10 knots. To this weight is added thirty tons of lubricating oil, giving
a total of 220 tons, or 7 per cent of the submerged displacement.
The officers and men for the cruiser submarine are estimated to number
100, their weight with provisions and water being taken as 55 tons to 60
tons, or 2 per cent of the displacement.
The total percentage already allocated reaches 45.5, leaving for the hull,
fittings and ballast 54.5 per cent, as compared with the 58 per cent quoted
for the ordinary submarine. The weight of accessories, auxiliary mechan-


  p. 1797 (#729)                      #

1925]
1797
Professional Notes
isms, anchors, cables, and equipment is stated to vary from 14 per cent to
15 per cent of the surface displacement for a large submarine, leaving 40
per cent for the hull structure and fixed ballast.
The author then discusses the various schemes which have been adopted
for the provision of the ballast, fuel, and other necessary tanks, quoting
figures to illustrate his arguments. He arrives at the conclusion that the
main ballast and oil-fuel tanks are most economically fitted outside the
pressure hull, i.e., between the pressure and external hulls, the method now
usually adopted. Certain tanks, such as compensating and trimming tanks,
which are relatively small, are more satisfactorily placed inside the pressure
hull. The thickness of the latter and the scantlings of its framing must
depend on the maximum depth to which it is intended the submarine should
submerge. In the earliest submarines, this depth was 30 m, and in 1914 had
increased to 45 m, while during the war 80 m to 100 m were employed. In
the submarine cruiser design 100 m has been allowed for, and for such a
depth the weight of the pressure-hull plating and framing is about 440 lb.
to 484 lb. per cubic metre of displacement. This amounts to about 20 per
cent of the surface displacement, to which must be added 5 per cent for
bulkheads, decks, and so forth. Finally, the structure of the submarine is
stated to require from 34 per cent to 36 per cent of the surface displace-
ment, which, deducted from the 40 per cent previously arrived at, leaves
4 per cent to 6 per cent for fixed ballast.
The paper next refers to the difficult question of stability, and mentions
that in the single-hull submarine of circular section, the stability, when sub-
merged, was satisfactory, while on the surface it was small and ballast had
to be added to secure an adequate amount. In the double-hull type, the
conditions are reversed, the stability on the surface being ample, while to
insure a satisfactory state when submerged, from 6 to 7 per cent of the
displacement is required for a ballast keel. The problem of securing stability
during the process of submerging, when the ballast tanks are only partially
full, is stated to be a difficult one, more especially in a double-hull sub-
marine. The unsatisfactory stability of German submarines, and the meas-
ures taken to remedy this are also referred to.
Some proposals have been advanced lately by which the stability of sub-
marines can be secured, the ballast keel reduced, and the weight thereby
saved applied to the improvement of other qualities. Three of these pro-
posals are referred to in the paper. The first is that of Professor Flamm,
who replaces the completely circular sectioned pressure hull by a trilobular
one and claims for this a smaller weight of pressure hull and framing for
the same depth of submergence, and also an improved stability. Both of
these results permit of an economy in weight, which he proposes to allocate
to armor and guns. M. de Vito states that his predecessor at the Ansaldo
Works, Colonel Soliani, has studied the problem, and has patented a section
of pressure hull with two circular lobes by which the same results are ob-
tained as for the trilobular, but which permits of much simpler internal
arrangements. The third proposal is that of Captain de Feo, of the Royal
Italian Navy, who retains the circular pressure hull, but arranges his ballast
and fuel tanks before and abaft it, instead of laterally as in the usual design.
This is the type submarine, a description of which has appeared in
Engineering, on page 171 of Vol. CXVIII. With this design economy in
hull structure is obtained, and the stability both when submerging and sub-
merged is satisfactory. M. de Vito inclines to the opinion that such a
system with some modifications will be found useful for adoption in cruiser
submarines. With it, however, the surface stability is not as satisfactory
as in the ordinary type, and it may be found necessary to add ballast or
fit bulges at the waterline to remedy this defect.


  p. 1798 (#730)                      #

1798
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
In concluding the paper, M. de Vito states that submarine experts have
always opposed large submarines, and he surmises that they appreciate the
difficulties more clearly than others with less experience, and prefer to
advance by reasonable steps to larger dimensions. Before the war, Italian
experts considered 700 tons as the maximum limit of displacement, and
this opinion was shared in other countries. During the war, however, sub-
marines of over 2,000 tons were constructed and operated successfully, indi-
cating that the difficulties were less than had been anticipated. He considers
that to the defensive, offensive and mine-layer types it is necessary to add
the submarine cruiser, and although he recognizes the time has not yet
arrived, presumably for lack of the powerful engines required, it will not
be long before the type is built. He believes a solution will be found by
reducing the submerged power installation to a minimum.
The author has successfully accomplished the object he had in view when
writing the paper. For various reasons information on submarines is far
more limited than for ordinary warships, and the data given in the paper
will indicate to the non-expert some of the difficulties of submarine design.
The naval officer will appreciate the effect of modification of qualities, espe-
cially surface and submerged speeds, on the displacement, while the expert
will find matter for study and criticism in the details of the cruiser design.
Two important considerations have not been mentioned in the paper. The
first of these is the cost of such vessels, and the second the tactical and
strategical purposes for which they are intended. In this country the cost
of a 3,000-ton submarine would be at least a million pounds, for which
three or four submarines of the offensive type of from 1,000 or 1,200 tons
could be constructed. The determination of the type to be built is the duty
of the higher naval authorities, but unless the cruiser type possesses very
great advantages over the equivalent larger number of the smaller and
offensive type, it is difficult to find a satisfactory reason for building it.
CURRENT NAVAL AND PROFESSIONAL PAPERS
“The Hawaiian Maneuvers,” by Brigadier General Richmond P. Davis,
U.S.A. Coast Artillery Journal, July.
“Hydro-Electric Development at Muscle Shoals." The Engineer, July 3,
et seq.
"Meteorology, An Aid in Warfare,” The Military Engineer, July-August.
"The World's Largest Diesel Electric Ships," (M.S. J. W. Van Dyke),
Nautical Gazette, July 4.
“Liner Tonnage in Overseas Trade," Nautical Gazette, July 24 and
August 1.
"Application of Turbine to European Inland Waterway Navigation," (De-
scription of Turbine Paddle Wheel Tug 245 ft. long, 31 ft. beam, 4!2 it.
draft.) The Marine Engineer and Motorship Builder, July.
"Turbine Blade Corrosion Prevented by Eliminating Oxygen," (Abstract
of Paper Read before American Chemical Society). Power, July 21.
"The Problem of the Tank.” The Journal of the Royal Artillery, July.


  p. 1799 (#731)                      #

NOTES ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
FROM 7 JULY TO 7 AUGUST
PREPARED BY PROFESSOR ALLEN WESTCOTT, U. S. NAVAL
DEMY
EUROPEAN SECURITY NEGOTIATIONS
GERMAN REPLY Favorable.—Germany's reply to the French observa-
tions on Germany's offer of a security pact was handed to M. Briand,
French Minister of Foreign Affairs, on July 20. Germany's latest reply
again raised objections to the military obligations that would be incurred
by Germany's joining the league, and expressed objection also to the
proposal that France should act as guarantor for the treaties to be negotiated
between Germany and her eastern neighbors.
The note proceeds to deal with "the serious consequences," which might
arise from the form of the French proposals for the guarantee of the
treaties of arbitration. Pointing out the absolute power which it is proposed
to give the guarantor, the note says:
"This would mean that, should a conflict arise, it would be for the
guarantor to decide which of the two contracting parties to a treaty of ar-
bitration should be considered the aggressor, and he would have the right
to decide, even if he were bound to one of the contracting parties by a
special alliance. It is quite clear that the system of guarantees would
by such construction be invalidated, to the sole detriment of Germany. Real
pacification, as aimed at by the German Government, in concert with the
Allied governments, would not be reached
In the way of general remarks the note says: “In spite of the doubt and
apprehensions here indicated, the German Government is able to observe
that on essential points a significant rapprochment of views by the two sides
already has taken place. The interested governments are in principle
unanimous in their desire to settle the security problem on the lines Ger-
many has suggested and by further development of the system of arbitration
treaties."
Expressing the conviction that these difficulties can be overcome, the note
concludes:
"The German Government would heartily welcome acceleration of these
discussions so that the urgent desire of the nations for reliable guarantees
of peace and peaceful development, as well as for the restoration of the
world's normal economic relations destroyed by the war, soon may be
satisfied."
Press reports indicated a difference of position between France and
Great Britain on the arbitration features of the proposed agreement.
France desired that arbitration should be obligatory, and that the treaties
between Germany on the one hand and Poland and Czecho-Slovakia on
the other should have a guarantor; whereas the British Government ap-


  p. 1800 (#732)                      #

1800
[Sept.
U. Ș. Naval Institute Proceedings
peared inclined to put Germany on an equal footing and consider her
word as good as that of the Allies. A consultation of British and French
ministers was planned before M. Briand made his reply.
SKILL OF GERMAN NOTE.-- (By Robert Dell in Baltimore Sun of July 23).
Rarely has the Quai d'Orsay been presented with a document so difficult
to answer. It is now France that is in danger of appearing as an obstacle
to peace and to the conclusion of the proposed security pact.
Two passages in the German reply are particularly effective. One refers
to the proposed French guarantee of arbitration treaties between Germany
on the one hand and Poland and Czecho-Slovakia on the other. The
skillful way in which the reply makes clear that France, in fact, proposes
to act as Foreign Minister Stresemann has previously said privately, as
second and umpire at the same time puts the French Government in a
very difficult position.
Equally effective is the German argument relative to Article XVI of the
League of Nation's covenant, with its telling allusion to the fact that, ac-
cording to the Treaty of Versailles, German disarmament is to be only the
prelude to general disarmament. It is quite natural that Germany should
ask for exceptional treatment as a member of the league in regard to Ar-
ticle XVI so long as she is in her present exceptional position.
Switzerland has, in fact, already been granted exceptional treatment in
this respect because she is a neutral country.
The German reply spikes the French objection, that all members of the
league must have equal rights and duties, by showing that Germany will
not have equal rights until her disarmament is followed by general dis-
armament.
DEBT NEGOTIATIONS
BELGIAN Mission to UNITED STATES.—The Belgian Debt Commission,
consisting of Former Premier Theunis, the American Ambassador Baron
de Cartier, and two leading Belgian bankers, arrived in New York on
August 5. Negotiations were scheduled to begin shortly thereafter, and a
speedy solution was anticipated. In a speech in the Belgian Parliament on
July 15, Paul Hymans, Belgian Foreign Minister at the time of the Versailles
Treaty, presented the view that the United States was under special moral
obligations in regard to the Belgian debt, in view of the fact that Belgium
had signed the Versailles Treaty only upon express assurance of priority of
payments from Germany to Belgium and concessions regarding payment of
Belgium's debts to the Allies; and that although the Versailles Treaty was
not ratified by the United States Senate, President Wilson's signature in a
measure committed the American Government. This view was not accepted
by Washington officials.
The Italian negotiations with the American Debt Commission were fur-
ther postponed by the departure of Ambassador de Martino for Italy early
in August
It was reported on July 30 that French debt negotiations in London had
broken down, owing to the unwillingness of Great Britain to accept the
French offer of annual payments of £4,000,000 plus £6,000,000 in German
marks to be transferred from France's share of payments from Germany.


  p. 1801 (#733)                      #

1925]
1801
.
Notes on International Affairs
Negotiations were postponed indefinitely, until after French negotiations
with the United States.
.
FRANCE
FRENCH SUCCESS IN MOROCCO.- Following the appointment of General
Naulin as director of military operations in Morocco, under Marshal Lyautey
as Minister of War to the Sultan and French Resident in Morocco, French
forces began offensive operations with apparently general success.
On July 9 further agreements were signed between France and Spain,
providing for a land blockade to supplement the joint naval blockade of
Riff territory, and providing also for coordination of aims in the prosecu-
tion of the war, determination of political boundaries and zones of interest,
and an agreement not to conclude a separate peace. Thus, even in the event
of complete victory over the Riffs, there will remain the problems involved
in Spanish control in Morocco and incapacity to subdue the subject popula-
tion.
Peace terms were offered to Abd-el-Krim and were published in the
London Times, but these were so difficult of acceptance as to support the
view that they were put forward by the French Government merely to se-
cure Socialist acquiescence for the credits needed to carry on the war.
In the middle of July the Chamber voted a credit of 183,000,000 francs
(about $9,000,000), the Socialists not voting and the Communists forming
the opposition.
NEAR EAST
GREEK-Bulgarian TENSION.—(From Baltimore Sun of August 5).
Paris, August 4 (AP).-Greek troops were on their way to the Greeco-
Bulgarian frontier today, having been dispatched by the Greek Government
following the recent assassination of M. Nicolaides, a Greek citizen, at
Stanimaka, Bulgaria, and allegations by Greece of terroristic acts by Bul-
garians against Greeks along the border line.
Word has reached here from Athens that the government has pointed
out the possibility of seizing Bulgarian frontier towns in retaliation for the
killing of M. Nicolaides unless suitable reparation is made. While one
report from the Greek capital is that the Bulgarian reception of the demand
for reparation has not been favorable, a dispatch from Sofia, the Bulgarian
capital, says that in reply to the Greek communication, Foreign Minister
Kalfoff has expressed extreme regret over the assassination and promised
that all measures would be taken to punish the offenders.
M. Dendramis, Greek delegate to the League of Nations and Greek
Minister to Switzerland, is reported in a dispatch from Geneva as saying
that if the reply to the note sent from Athens to Sofia is not considered
satisfactory by Greece, an appeal would be taken to the League of Nations.
Under the voluntary agreement for the exchange of populations between
the two Governments, M. Dendramis explained, about 6,000 Greek residents
in Bulgaria were scheduled to depart for their homeland by mid-October.
In Greece, he said, the recent murders were looked upon as designed to ter-
rorize the Greeks into leaving in haste, thus affording an opportunity for the
confiscation of their property.


  p. 1802 (#734)                      #

1802
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
LATIN AMERICA
Latin AMERICA AND THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS.—(From Baltimore Sun
of July 27).
Williamstown, Massachusetts, July 27 (AP).-The assertion that a
growing trend toward a balance of power in the Latin-American countries
must be combated by the United States to avoid the same disastrous con-
sequences which resulted from the European balance of power was made
here today by Dr. Leo S. Rowe, director general of the Pan-American
Union, at Washington.
Stating that the tremendous and rapidly increasing volume of investments
by this country in the Latin-American countries is creating a fear there
of coming political domination, and citing the fact that the League of
Nations has developed in the Latin-American republics a much greater
consciousness of individuality and power, Dr. Rowe said:
"In view of the probable developments in the next twenty-five or fifty
years there could be nothing worse than this country's policy of isolation
from Europe on one hand and from Latin-America on the other, by reason
of the latter's affiliation with the league.
"Such a policy would be disastrous to our domestic development and would
place us on the defensive as a nation. Therefore, we have a very deep in-
terest in fostering an American system in which we shall form a part and
in which we shall be integrated as the Latin-American countries are inte-
grated.”
Discussing remedies for the situation by closer cooperation among all
the Americas, Dr. Rowe said:
"The formation of intellectual and cultural ties between this country and
the other American nations is a patriotic duty and we must not lull our-
selves to sleep with the thought that commercial bonds are sufficient. It is
essential, also, that Great Britain, with her possessions in this hemisphere,
be given a voice in the determination of Pan-American policies.
"The United States must make the Monroe Doctrine a continental doc-
trine, arousing the confidence of the Latin-American countries instead of
their distrust as at present."
This distrust was clearly shown, he asserted, "by the fact that disputes
between Latin-American republics have been submitted to the League of
Nations, which has superseded the action of the United States in securing
their settlement."
“When seventeen of the twenty Latin-American states were admitted to
the league," he went on, "it looked as if the discussion of American ques-
tions would be shifted from Washington to Geneva. There is a growing
feeling that the league may serve the countries to the south of us as a
counterweight to the influence of the United States.
"The fact of the overwhelming power of the United States, the fact that
from a military, naval, commercial and national viewpoint our power out-
weighs that of all the Latin-American countries combined is alone enough to
create a constant questioning as to what the United States is going to
do next.
"We are beginning to realize, however," he said, "that insofar as we
can develop a unity of purpose and of policy with these countries, our in-
fluence in world affairs will be correspondingly strengthened."
U. S. MARINES LEAVE NICARAGUA.—The 150 marines remaining in Nica-
ragua out of the company that Captain (now General) Smedley Butler
took there in 1912 will embark tomorrow for their journey back to the
United States, it was announced at the Navy Department today. They will
arrive at Hampton Roads on August 17 and from there will go to the
East Coast expeditionary base at Quantico, Virginia.


  p. 1803 (#735)                      #

1925)
1803
Notes on International Affairs
The marines were sent to Nicaragua under the command of Butler to
quiet the reign of terror that brought to a close the sixteen years' rule
of Dictator Jose Santos Zelaya and continued after he left office. At the
time it was announced that they would be kept there so long as the interests
and lives of foreigners were in danger.
The "lost battalion," as the marines were designated by the natives,
stayed through the administration of half a dozen presidents. Several
times former Secretary of State Hughes made moves to withdraw them,
but each time the party in power, representing the anti-Liberal element,
urged that they be retained. All the while, though, the opposition to the
party in power fought against the American supervision.
This year, when the Liberals got into power with a platform of “Nica-
ragua for Nicaraguans," it might have been expected that the new Presi-
dent, Carlos Solorzano, would wish a speedy departure of Uncle Sam's
troops—but he did not. Solorzano requested an extension of their stay and
it was agreed last winter that the marines would remain until not later
than September i to drill a native constabulary to take their place in main-
taining law and order.
Since the marines went to Nicaragua the gold standard has been estab-
lished, the monetary system has been reformed on the basis of the dollar
and a financial organization has been built up by a committee of Americans
and natives. The customs tariff was revised, the railroad was placed on a
dividend paying basis and the public debt was studied and liquidated to the
satisfaction of all, it is said, with the exception of about 3 per cent of the
creditors.
FAR EAST
Russo-JAPANESE RIVALRY IN MANCHURIA.—(From The Struggle in
Manchuria, by Philip Kerby, reprinted in Living Age from Japan Ad-
vertiser of May 19).
During the past six months the activity of both Russia and Japan in
Manchuria to gain economic and military supremacy has been increased
a hundred fold. No effort has been spared on the part of either nation
to forge ahead the outposts of their separate civilizations, and it would
seem that in the very near future a crisis must occur which will have an
effect upon the whole of Northern Asia.
After making an extensive trip lasting more than two months and taking
in nearly all of both Southern and Northern Manchuria, I firmly believe
that the stage is set for one of the greatest economic battles of modern
history. Whether or not it will assume proportions of open conflict, time
alone can tell. Both the Soviet and Japan are making preparations for
development in Manchuria on a much greater scale than ever before at-
tempted, but both are reckoning without their host, namely, China.
The Soviet has sworn "blood allegiance" to China and is doing every-
thing in her power to further the abrogation of the so-called "unequal
treaties"--if we are to believe the statements of Comrade Karakham,
first Soviet Ambassador to China in Peking. While the Soviet is meta-
phorically patting China on the back with one hand, she is calmly pursuing
an imperialistic policy of land-grabbing and concession-hunting with the
other which would have put the Tsarists to shame. The Soviet encroach-
ments in Manchuria during the past half year are greater than at any time
since the period immediately preceding the Russo-Japanese War.
NINE-POWER TREATY RATIFIED.-Early in July France ratified the two
Nine-Power Treaties relating to China which were negotiated in 1922 at
the Washington Conference. Since all other powers concerned (United


  p. 1804 (#736)                      #

1804
[Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
States, Great Britain, Italy, Japan, The Netherlands, Portugal, Belgium,
and China) had previously ratified, arrangements were made at Washington
for final exchange of ratifications on August 5, and for the calling of an
international conference, as provided in the treaties, to consider abrogation
of an extraterritoriality (consular courts), setting up of mixed courts, with-
drawal of foreign troops from China, and retrocession of leaseholds.
The Nine-Power Treaties include the so-called Root resolution binding the
powers to respect the sovereignty, independence, and administrative in-
tegrity of China, and to maintain the principle of equality of opportunity
for all nations in commerce and industry.
PROPOSALS TO China.—(From Baltimorė Sun, July 22).
Washington, July 22 (AP).-Definite proposals for settlement of pending
questions growing out of the recent anti-foreign outbreak in China are ex-
pected to be transmitted to the Chinese Provisional government by the
Peking diplomats in the near future.
While details are lacking, it now seems certain that the settlement
formula to be presented by the Peking diplomats will embrace two distinct
elements. They are :
Convocation of the Chinese customs revision conference with a minimum
of delay and creation of a commission to inquire into extra-territorial mat-
ters at a date still to be fixed.
Reference of the question of responsibility for bloodshed in the recent
Shanghai riots to a judicial inquiry, with the Chinese Government participat-
ing, and all governments bound to abide by the findings.
Formal expressions from Japan of her desire to carry out strictly the
commitments entered into with respect to China at the Washington Con-
ference is expected to pave the way for the first step. Similar expressions
from other governments are confidently expected as the result of the note
proposing this course sent out by Secretary Kellogg.
China and Russia.--(From Time, July 20).
Unbiased reports from China—that is, the average of biased reports, for
all communications from that once celestial land are more or less colored-
seem unanimous that the root of the disturbances is due to the foreign
powers which exploit China economically and dominate her politically.
Bolshevik influences, which are obviously existent, found rather than caused
a situation of deep discontent, which was naturally receptive of Moscow's
virulent propaganda.
But, if Bolshevism is not at the bottom of the Chinese anti-foreign move-
ment, it is a menace capable of endless trouble in China which can be offset
only by the unified action of the powers. The greatest danger is that the
Chinese Government, being met with nothing from the powers (mainly
Britain) but chilly demands for justice with idemnities for the Shanghai
outrages, will listen readily to the friendly advances of Moscow. Un-
doubtedly with this in their minds, the United States, Britain, and Japan
agreed to a compromise at Tokyo aimed at calming China, while at Swamp-
scott President Coolidge insisted on a scrupulous observance of the Nine-
Power Treaties, and respect for foreign lives and property by China and
virtually called an international conference for the fall.
The signs in Peking were that the Chinese Government would do its
best-and what that is remains to be seen-to restore quiet. How far the
nationalistic students will support the central government is another specula-


  p. 1805 (#737)                      #

1925]
1805
Notes on International Affairs
tion which appears equally impossible to hazard. Said the New York Times:
“When do Chinese students study?"
AMERICANS KILLED AND CAPTURED.—(From New York Times, July 24).
Peking, July 23 (AP).-Morgan Palmer, an American, has been killed by
bandits at his ranch on the Sungari River, near Harbin, Manchuria. Dr.
Harvey J. Howard, an eye specialist attached to the Rockefeller Hospital
in Peking, was captured at the same time.
Consular advices from Kalgan state that Mr. Palmer was killed on
July 20 while defending his property against the bandits.
Mr. Palmer and his mother, Dr. Howard and his son James, and an
American trader named Harold Baldwin of Kalgan, Chihli Province, to-
gether with his wife and child, were visiting Mr. Palmer's ranch, which
is in the Province of Kirin, when the attack was made.
The consular advices say that Dr. Hoard was still in captivity last
night, while the others were “safe for the present," but their whereabouts
was not known.
Mr. Palmer was connected with the Salt Administration in Peking, but
retired some time ago to conduct an experimental farm.


  p. 1806 (#738)                      #

BOOK REVIEWS
COMBATS ET BATAILLES SUR MER (September-Decem-
ber, 1914)—Claude Farrère et Paul Chack, Paris. E. Flam-
marion, Editeur, Paris. 7 fr. 95. p. 279.
REVIEWED BY REAR ADMIRAL ALBERT GLEAVES, U. S. N. (Red.)
The authors of these stories of sea fights during the World War are
naval officers of distinction. They are commanders on the active list, and
were classmates at the Naval School at Brest. Farrère is a well known
novelist and playwright, and in the service is generally regarded as a second
Pierre Loti. Commander Chack is chief of the historical section of the
Admiralty, and is the author of the Guerre de Croiseurs, a monumental
work which for originality in design, and wealth of detail is probably su-
perior to any other history of the operations which it describes. The
writers have blended their individual styles so admirably that it is not
possible to discern the dividing line; we presume, however, that Farrère
paints the background of sea and earth and sky, against which Chack
projects, with characteristic clearness and unusual freedom from technical
phraseology, a few chapters from the Odyssey of Count von Spee's ill-
fated squadron. The student, and also those who read for amusement, will
be interested in the pictures of the tropics, notably of Tahiti; that wonder
of the ocean bed, the submarine forests of coral at the Abrolhas Islands,
(“lookout for breakers") which are visible at a depth of twenty fathoms
when the sea is calm, and the sun high, and of the storm encountered by
the Germans on the voyage around the Horn.
The stories are made up largely from the personal narratives of the
survivors, and contain much material which, so far as we know, has not
hitherto been published. The human element of the book constitutes its
principal charm.
The operations selected by the authors are the bombardment of Papéété,
the "Death" of the Emden, the “Cavalry and Passion" of Admiral Cradock,
and the battle of the Falkland Islands.
The volume begins with a brief statement of the war situation as it was
on September 22, 1914, when "more than 850,000,000 of human beings, that
is to say, more than one half of the inhabitants of the globe, were more or
less engaged in the gigantic struggle, with eyes anxiously fixed on the
trenches, and ears listening to the fabulous tumult of armed forces. No
one, or almost no one, thought of the sea, and yet it was by the sea that
the contest was to be decided. To keep the sea lanes open for reinforcing
and supplying the troops at the front was the task for four years of the
allied navies.”


  p. 1807 (#739)                      #

1925]
1807
Book Reviews
Fifteen days before war was declared Admiral von Spee with his
squadron sailed from Tsing-tau and disappeared into the “blue immensity”
of the Pacific Ocean. About the same time a number of big German col-
liers departed without clearing from various ports of China and Japan.
Notwithstanding all efforts by wireless and cable, no news could be obtained
of their whereabouts, and eighty cruisers failed to located them. Thus
the Germans became a fleet in being, a menace to commerce and convoy,
holding the supreme strategic advantage of choice of time and position.
With a fatal disregard of this, the German admiral revealed his secret
to the world by appearing off Apia on September 14 with the Scharnhorst
and Gneisenau in the vain hope of surprising some British cruiser. Disap-
pointed in this, he continued on toward his rendezvous at Easter Island, but
stopped at Bora-Bora in the Society Islands to coal from the colliers he
had with him. Flying no colors, and covering the names of the ships with
tarpaulins, they were taken for English ships by the people on shore.
Cap ribbons were removed, and no officers were allowed on deck who
could not speak either French or English. When, therefore, the French
representative, a brigadier of gendarmes, came on board, he was completely
fooled and freely answered all questions. From him the admiral learned that
the defenses at Tahiti were insignificant and had not been strengthened,
and there was no ship there except a small gunboat and a German collier
containing 3,000 tons of coal, which she had recently captured. In the
afternoon von Spee sailed, and as he passed out of the harbor a large
French flag was hoisted ashore. He replied by displaying his own national
colors!
The next morning at day break, the German ships appeared off Tahiti
out of a dense fog. The captain of the Zelee, the French gunboat, had
assumed charge of the defense of the island. His name was Destremau
and he was a lieutenant de vaisseau, and is highly commended by the
authors as an exceptionally fine officer. Von Spee probably would not
have fired on the town had not the little French battery opened on him.
The result of the affair was that the Germans sank the gunboat and collier
by gun fire and fired a number of shells into the village of Papéété, which
caught fire and "burned like a torch." As the French had already set
fire to their own coal pile and destroyed the leading marks of the channel,
the object of the visit to replenish his colliers was frustrated, and von Spee
proceeded to the Marquesas, anchoring for a few hours in the beautiful
harbor of Nuka-Hiva where Commodore “Essex" Porter had refitted his
ships just 100 years before, prior to his battle in Valparaiso Harbor. ..
The authors consider the "combat de Tahiti” as lost by von Spee and won
by Lieutenant Destremau. Four years afterwards Destremau, then dead,
was awarded the posthumous honor of the rosette of the Legion of Honor
and the Croix de Guerre, on the recommendation of Admiral de Bon, the
chief of the naval general staff.
To Captain von Müller, of the Emden, the authors give unstinted praise.
Their opinion is that he lived up to the high traditions of the sea, and they
compare him with Sorcouf and Pierre de Bouvet.


  p. 1808 (#740)                      #

1808
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
On August 12 the Emden, which had sailed from Tsing-tau on August 3,
joined von Spee at Pagen Island. At the request of von Müller he was de-
tached and ordered on special duty. From that time until the loss of the
Emden at Cocos Island, on November 9, his career was one of destruction
and terror to merchant shipping, but without stain or blemish; as the
authors say, "he was a gentleman.” In this brief notice we are only con-
cerned with the Emden's action with the destroyer Mousquet immediately
following von Müller's brilliant exploit at Penang.
The Mousquet, under the command of Lieutenant Théroinne, was re-
turning from a night patrol off Penang ; her ammunition was stored away,
torpedo tubes trained fore and aft, awnings spread and the ship tidied
up for the day. At 6:20, when about fourteen miles north of Penang, she
sighted the Emden through the mist, and taking her for an ally hoisted the
recognition signal of the day, which was returned by a salvo of five 10 c.m.
shell, followed at minute intervals by five others. The Emden hoisted
her own colors and closed in but kept out of torpedo range. The action
lasted sixteen minutes (Corbett says seven). The Mousquet was literally
shot to pieces and went slowly down, bow first, her colors flying at the
gaff, her stern high in air, “as if drawn to heaven by the three-colored flag
of France."
The Germans picked up the survivors, many of whom were wounded,
but the captain, two officers and forty men disappeared with the ship.
The French fought to the last against overwhelming odds with that
courage, which, to use Macaulay's fine phrase, has so often claimed the
admiration of history. In that early morning fight Théroinne and his men
gave the French Navy another glorious tradition, and proved themselves
worthy successors of the great Suffren. Officers and crew were cited
for bravery, eight received special mention, and the name of Ensign Carri-
son was given to an ex-German submarine.
After the battle of Coronel von Spee with the Scharnhorst and Gneisenau
put into Valparaiso on November 3, 1914.
At once the ships were surrounded by a multitude of small boats filled
with an excited howling mob of Germans, screaming "Hochs," and calling
for the admiral to show himself.
But the count did not appear. He was closeted in his cabin with his
chief of staff, preparing his own report of the battle and scanning the
despatches just received. Save for bits of news, more or less unreliable,
which have drifted through Reuters and Havas he had been without in-
formation for many weeks.
When the German Minister came on board he at once began a flowery
speech of welcome, hailing von Spee as the Master of the Sea. The latter,
grave and dignified, interrupted and took him to his cabin with Captain
Fielitz, and the three remained there for two hours. When the conference
was over it was noticed that the admiral seemed even more serious, and
the gaiety of the minister had entirely vanished. In the meantime German
bands were making the harbor ring with Deutchland über Alles, Heil dir
im Seigerskrans and the Wacht am Rhein.


  p. 1809 (#741)                      #

1925)
1809
Book Reviews
The admiral declined all invitations ashore except the banquet in the
evening at the German club given by the German colony. This was an
obligatory sacrifice which he could not escape. The authors say, “The Ad-
miral dined at the club, drank champagne, and drained the chalice to the
dregs.” It was all in the day's work, a part of his trade.
To an old friend on the legation staff who said au revoir to him, he
replied Not au revoir, but adieu, and to another who presented him with
flowers, "I will keep these to the end ; they will still be fresh at our
funerals.”
It was not until after Coronel that the German Admiralty seemed to
see the writing on the wall, and, in despatches received at Valparaiso, it
suggested to von Spee that he return to Germany with his ships, but that
he keep them together. The authors criticize this as lacking in dash and
determination, and express the opinion that the admiral should have been
directed to scatter his force, the ships to make the best of their way in-
dependently, avoiding action, coaling from their own colliers or from prizes.
At the end of the allowed twenty-four hours von Spee put to sea and
returned to Mas-a-fuera. He realized the increasing seriousness of his
position and that it was daily more difficult to obtain shelter in Chilian
harbors or opportunities to coal. All the news received at Valparaiso con-
vinced him that the famous German organization was crumbling. He must
have passed many gloomy hours in his cabin alone with his thoughts. It
has been said that just as mercury shows the coming of bad weather and will
shrink within its glass artery, so there may be some subtle property in the
blood which perceives the hands that are raised to waste and spill it. If
this be true the German admiral's blood must have warned him of his fate.
From all accounts of his last days from those who saw him in Chile and the
few survivors from the fleet who are qualified to speak, Count von Spee
was a changed man after his victory over Cradock. He was obsessed with
the idea of English revenge. Had he pushed on with his former energy
after leaving Valparaiso, either to the Falklands or to the coast of Argen-
tine, history would have been written differently, but he spent a week coaling
at Mas-a-fuera, and again five days in St. Quentin Bay, 300 miles north
of the Straits of Magellan. It seemed, as the authors say, that he could
not make up his mind to leave those calm waters, or the hospitable shores
of the Gulf of Peñas “trembling with the call of the southern springtime.”
The voyage to Cape Horn was made in such heavy weather that speed was
reduced to little more than steerage way, and the ships loaded to the gunwales
with coal labored so heavily that the seas broke over them as upon rocks
at half tide. The wind blew a hurricane from the southwest and over-
head black clouds drove like a funeral pall over the doomed ships. Ac-
cording to the authors they were frequently on their beam ends, rolling
their keels out of water.
On December 2 the squadron was off the Horn and the weather began to
abate. At this time the Leipzig sighted an English sailing vessel which
proved to be a collier. For von Spee it was an unfortunate prize. She


  p. 1810 (#742)                      #

1810
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
was towed to Picton Island at the entrance of Beagle Channel, and the next
day the ships coaled again. The three days delay at Picton Island sealed
their death warrant.
Before sailing on December 6, the captains were called on board the
flagship, and, to their astonishment, were informed by von Spee that he
proposed to attack Port Stanley. The chief of staff and the captain of the
Nürnberg were the only ones who concurred; the others were silent, ex-
cept the captain of the Leipzig, who firmly dissented, but the admiral
had at last made up his mind. He ended the conference by saying, “Gentle-
men, I have spoken. Day after tomorrow at 8:00 A.M. we shall attack Port
Stanley." It was a dramatic scene and reminds one of Beauregard's coun-
cil of war the night before the second day's battle of Shiloh: "Gentlemen.
tomorrow night we shall sleep in the camps of the enemy," and the dreams of
the admiral were as futile as those of the general.
The authors' account of how the news of Coronel was received at the
Admiralty, of Sir John Fisher's calmness but prompt action is as graphic
as Sir Quiller-Couch's description of Lord Barham's reception of the mes-
senger from Trafalgar. When Admiral Oliver, the chief of staff, showed
the telegram to Fisher, without a word the latter turned to the chart on
which the positions of the allied and enemy's ships were plotted with colored
pins, picked out those of the Good Hope and the Monmouth and dropped
them on the floor. After a few minutes thought he measured the distance
between Valparaiso and Falkland and from the English Channel to Falk-
land, then said “Call Sturdee.” Admiral Sturdee left London on an hour's
notice for Devonport and on November il sailed for the South Atlantic
with the Invincible and the Inflexible. He arrived at the Abrozhos Islands
on November 26, where he found the squadron of Rear Admiral Stoddert
consisting of six ships. From Admiral Stoddert, Sturdee heard that the
Germans were expected to arrive off the Plate about December 15.
Fisher had said that von Spee would go to the Falklands, and Sturdee
refused to be diverted by unreliable telegrams and conflicting reports that
the Germans were on the west coast of South America bound for Panama ;
at any rate that contingency had been provided for by the Titan in London,
who had sent the Princess Royal to the West Indies. On November 28,
two days after the Germans started for the Falklands, Sturdee sailed from
the Abrolhos rendezvous. He arrived at Port Stanley at 11:00 A.m. on
December 7 and at once began coaling and overhauling engines.
History, perhaps, does not record a greater surprise or one fraught with
more momentous consequences, than that of the navigator of the Gneisenau
when he sighted the tripodmasts of the British battle cruisers over the sand
dunes of the Falklands, at daybreak on December 8. Those masts spelled the
death warrant of Admiral von Spee's squadron. It is the opinion of the
authors that even at this hour von Spee had a chance, and that a Nelson
or a Suffren would have seized it and won. The English were at anchor,
coaling, overhauling engines, under low steam, and without a thought
that the Germans were east of Cape Horn. It was a situation that would


  p. 1811 (#743)                      #

1925)
1811
Book Reviews
have meant disaster to Sturdee had von Spee been a Farragut or a Dewey.
Lord Fisher once said that imagination and audacity beget surprise, and
according to the authors von Spee, whom they admit was a good fighter,
lacked the very qualities of imagination and audacity which make a great
leader; they admit that he was a valiant sailor, but no chart genius, and
did not know how to make war.
The story of December 8 has never been better told. "Sturdee held all
of the trumps, but Sir John Fisher had won the battle a month before-
what followed was the execution, not swift destruction by the guillotine,
but destruction by the slow process of the saw. The battle dragged nearly
three hours. The end, however, was the same, and von Spee's head fell into
the basket.”
During the battle a singular thing occurred. A sailing ship under full
canvas suddenly appeared between the opposing vessels. She saluted by
dipping her colors, which, unfortunately could not be made out. The salute,
of course, could not be returned, but Sturdee, with the meticulous courtesy
of the sea, ran off his course to clear her, and the Invincible, none the less
gallant, opened out from the Inflexible, in order that the ricochets from the
Germans might go clear of "the frail hull and her snowy sails bathed in the
sunshine.”
"Even as the French guns on the Marne sounded the knell of the German
Armies, so the British guns off the Falklands sounded the knell of the Ger-
man Navy. The guns of Falkland were heard in London, and Fisher
recognized them—he had waited for them. They were heard in Berlin and
their burning breath scorched the Kaiser and von Tirpitz, for they dedicated
the German squadrons to defeat.”
So ends the book. It is to be hoped that the authors will find as com-
petent and sympathetic a translator as the author of that other classic,
Ariel.
COMBATS ET BATAILLES SUR MER (September-Decem-
ber, 1914)—By Claude Farrère and Paul Chack. E. Flam-
marion, Editor. Paris. 7 fr. 95. Five articles : Tahiti, Penang,
La Mort de l'Emden, Coronel and Les Falkland.
These articles are far from being war stories such as we have known them
from the pen of the “Correspondent” or the "Eye Witness.” There are some
efforts at literary garnish, some speculative and descriptive digressions,
but the dominant tone is that of an appreciative expert noting faithfully
and progressively what is happening and the conditions under which it is
happening. Time and again, the authors refuse to maneuver for dramatic
effect, little inclined to make a thriller out of the subject matter ; on the
other hand, they are equally far from the grave historian. Generalization
is avoided, detail is the order of the day, and episodes have their place.
Furthermore, the style is conversational, informal, at times familiar and
even rubbing elbows with jargon. However, the details are invariably


  p. 1812 (#744)                      #

1812
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
significant and the episodes luminous and interesting. If the style flies
below the literary levels, it makes up by being remarkably clear, concise,
flexible, and, shall we say, self-effacing ? Objects, events, states of mind are
rapidly noted, significance and relation neatly underscored. The reader
is hardly aware of reading; he has the feeling of reality, of selected,
significant reality.
Tahiti.—The book should not be judged by the first article. Notwith-
standing many excellent pages on the general situation contained in Tahiti,
this article suffers severely from heterogeneous elements, aims and efforts,
and is considerably marred by gusts of a controversial nature. It also
fails to carry persuasion in the main theme. To be sure, Lieutenant
Destremau performs his duty in admirable fashion, but the lay reader is
not persuaded that three volleys from 65-mm. guns frightened von Spee
into renouncing his plan of taking Tahiti. In fact, the reader is not
informed why von Spee, whose escarde fantôme is causing so much anxiety
by the mystery of its whereabouts, should abandon his design on Cradock's
squadron and announce himself “at home at Papéété." All that the reader
sees is that von Spee carefully surveys the situation, takes the most favor-
able position, opens fire and reduced Papéété to ashes.
Penang.-Penang is perhaps the best of the five articles. The historical
event is simple: The Russian cruiser Yemchoug moors in the harbor of
Penang. Toward daybreak, the Emden passes by, fires one torpedo going ;
another, coming; the Yemchoug is no more; the Emden sinks a French
torpedo boat and leaves for an unknown destination.
How did it happen? or, did it actually happen? Was it a nightmare?
a mirage? Such seems to have been the atmosphere, and the authors excel
in reproducing that atmosphere in the making.
La Mort de l'Emden is more exhilarating reading. It covers the career
of the Einden after Penang, including her fight for life, as well as the
Odyssey of von Mücke, beginning on a sail boat at Cocos Islands and ending
at Constantinople, where he rejoins the German forces after eighty-four days
of peril and adventure. There is not an incident that could be spared
without loss; not a word that would not be missed; no delay in the progress
of the narrative unless it be to give the reader his bearings, to listen to the
wireless or to note that it is not heard. It is a stern but appreciative account
of will, courage, and resourcefulness.
Coronel and Les Falkland.-In both Coronel and Les Falkland much
space is devoted to preliminaries, to states of mind, to Cradock's vain
appeals for reinforcement and his stoic attitude after repeated refusals,
von Spee's heavy hearted celebration of the victory, a glance at Fisher, at
the War Office, at Sturdee's speedy departure for Port Stanley
The main action in each battle is fully noted. But, however important,
however long drawn, however touching and admirable in their stoic heroism,
they furnish less opportunity to the writers than the situation that follows
each main section, at dusk, in the dark: the suspense, anxiety, the nervous-
ness when friend and foe rub noses without recognizing each other. It is


  p. 1813 (#745)                      #

1925)
1813
Book Reviews
this phase of the fighting that also presents what is perhaps the outstanding
episode: the last gasps of the Monmouth.
Helplessly crippled, unable to move, with a list that makes her guns
point to the water on one side and to the clouds on the other, the Monmouth
is challenged in the dark by the Nürnberg. No reply. The enemy opens a
violent fire; he ceases, he renews. The sole reply is that of the last
projector casting its light on the flag Aoating from the after mast. Gradually
the Monmouth is gliding into the water, and the flag is foating and the
projector is shedding its light until it is extinguished by the water.
From the beginning to the end, through the irony sprinkled in Tahiti,
the sluggish atmosphere of Penang, the brisk career of the Emden, the
Odyssey of von Mücke and the tragedies of the South American waters,
the authors are sparing in, almost refraining from, terms expressing emotion.
It is by skilful selection and careful notation that they attain the desired
end.
It is realism with a vengeance.
H. B.
!
ALL THE WORLD'S AIRCRAFT. Founded by Fred T.
Jane, Edited and Compiled by C. G. Grey. Sampson Low, and
Marston, Ltd., 1923. D. Van Nostrand Co., New York.
$12.50
To those familiar with Jane's Fighting Ships little introduction is needed
to Jane's All the World's Aircraft. The two volumes, aside from being
similar in construction and binding, are also similar in general arrange-
ment.
All the World's Aircraft has been published yearly since 1911. The book
contains nearly 400 pages and consists of four parts as follows:
Part A-World's Aeronautical Progress.
......... 78 pages
Part B—All the World's Airplanes (Including Sections on
Helicopters and Glides)......
........ 230 pages
Part C—All the World's Aero-Engines..................... 53 pages
Part D-All the World's Airships.
.. 8 pages
Each of these four parts contains a separate section for every country
having standing in the aeronautical world. Photographs and sketches are
numerous.
The yearly editions follow closely the world's aeronautical progress.
During 1923 there was great activity in development of the aircraft engine.
Nearly every nation has begun to re-arm its air services with faster and
more powerful airplanes. These new types appear in the 1924 edition.
Several countries are producing new types of civilian airplanes for both
passenger and freight service. Among some of the most interesting machines
described appear a number of types designed and built in countries which


  p. 1814 (#746)                      #

1814
(Sept.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
have not hitherto appeared as aircraft producers, having previously bought
all of their machines abroad.
One of the most striking features of airplane design during 1923 was
the introduction of light airplanes, commonly miscalled “motor gliders”
(because they were developed as a result of the glider competitions of 1922).
These are described and illustrated.
The air lines of the world are described at length. Such progress as has
been made in airship design is given attention. Gliders, though nearly
extinct, receive consideration. Several types of helicopters are described,
and even naval aircraft carriers are treated briefly.
A historical section deals fully with the latest developments of the air
services of all nations and gives details of the organization and establishment
of each nation's air force. For the first time considerable information is
given concerning aviation in the Union of Soviet Republics, generally called
Russia.
Captain W. H. Sayers, late R.A.F., and now technical editor of The
Aeroplane, deals comprehensively, in special articles, with the general trend
of aircraft and engine design, and indicates recent progress in comparison
with previous years.
Containing a variety of information generously illustrated, All the
World's Aircraft is a most valuable book for study and reference to every-
one interested in aeronautics.
W. W W.


  p. 1815 (#747)                      #

SECRETARY'S NOTES
Membership New members joining since last report:
Davis, Kenneth S., Ensign, U.S.C.G. Davis, R. G., Lieut. Comdr., U.S.N.
Raynor, Leroy P., Lieut., Č. & G. Survey Kelly, R. K., Lieut., U.S.N.
Bell, A. Colquhoun, Lieut. Comdr., R.B.N. Borden, M. E., Lieut., U.S.N.R.F.
Johnson, H. W., Lieut., U.S.N.
Wellings, Augustus J., Lieut., U.S.N.
Special Information
Number
The October, 1925, PROCEEDINGS will be
known as the “Special Information Num-
ber," commemorative of Navy Day.
The Institute desires articles of interest to all branches
Articles of the service, including the reserve force. Non-
members as well as members may submit articles, and
authors receive due compensation for articles published. Com-
pact, well digested articles are more likely to be accepted for
early publication. In accepting articles for publication, the In-
stitute reserves the right to have such articles revised or rearranged,
where necessary, in order to bring them up to the required stand-
ard of articles published in the PROCEEDINGS—the cost, if any, to
be deducted from the compensation due the author.
Contributors are requested to observe the following special in-
structions in preparing articles for the PROCEEDINGS:
(a) In writing names of ships put only the initial letters in
capitals and underscore the names. The underscoring sig.
nifies to the printer that the word is to be in italics. The
same applies to names of publications. Foreign words not
anglicized should also be italicized.
(b) In preparing tables and computations employing fractions,
sub-numbers, etc., do by hand that part which cannot be
made perfectly clear by the typewriter.
(c) In typing the script use double space between lines.
(d) When a quotation is included in an article the editor should
be assured by appropriate notation that the writer has care-
fully verified the quotation as presented.


  p. 1816 (#748)                      #

1816
(Sept.
:
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Perry's
Referring to page 1475 of the August PROCEED-
Ings in the article "Perry's Victory on Lake
Original Flag
Erie,” the original flag of Perry, bearing Law-
rence's motto, “Don't Give up the Ship,” is now at the Naval
Academy, and so displayed in Memorial Hall that it is the first
object to greet the eye of any midshipman or visitor.
Discussion of articles published in the PROCEED-
Discussions INGS is cordially invited. Discussions accepted
for publication are paid for at approximately
one-half the rate for original articles.
Book
Reviews
As soon as practicable after the publication of books
on subjects of professional interest, the Institute
aims to publish authoritative reviews of them.
The Institute desires to obtain a copy of Jane's
Jane's
"Fighting Ships”
Fighting Ships, 1924, the edition of which
is exhausted; and requests that anyone wish-
(1924)
ing to dispose of a copy communicate with
the Naval Institute, stating price desired and condition of book.
Storage Battery
Manual
The price of Dunn's Storage Battery Manual
has been reduced from $7.00 to $2.00 per copy.
New
Naval Ordnance, 1921 is now under revision. The
new book will be ready for issue about the 15th of
Books
November, and will be known as Naval Ordnance,
1925. It will retail at $8.00 per copy, postpaid.
There has just been received from the printer a new book,
Radio Manual, prepared by the Department of E. E. and P., U. S.
Naval Academy, for use as a textbook by midshipmen of the first
class. The book was designed to meet the special requirements
of the midshipmen, and treats not only with the receiving, but
also with the sending of messages. Price $3.00, postpaid.
H. A. BALDRIDGE,
; Captain, U. S. Navy, Secretary-Treasurer.


  p. 1816 (#749)                      #

United States
Naval Institute
Proceedings
VOL. 51
OCTOBER, 1925
NO. 272


LIN
KSTI
00
NAV
NAVAL
ACADEMY
U.S.
TUT
E
IDENS
1873
SCIENTIA)
CONTENTS
1817
1825
1832
1838
Gentlemen, The Navy.-Robinson . .
Navy Day. Howe
The Elements of Sea Power and the Future of the Navy.-Eberle
Petroleum and National Defense.—Jones.
Military Preparedness Necessary to the Economic and Social Welfare of the
United States.-Rodgers
The United States Marine Corps. -Lejeune.
Some Aviation Fundamentals.- Moffett.
The Wise Man Knows His Tools.-Robison,
The Development and Growth of the American Na
ans
The Array Against Sovereignty. Cluverius
The Naval Research Laboratory. -Foley
Unified Procurement of Government Aircraft.-Wilson
New Lease of Life for Old Ironsides.-Krafft
The Government-Owned Merchant Marine. — Palmer
Comparative Naval Data for the Treaty Navies
Discussion . . . .
Professional Notes .
Notes on International Affairs
Book Reviews
Secretary's Notes
..
1845
1858
1871
1882
1897
1916
1925
1933
1938
1944
1954
1961
1967
2036
2045
2047
....
.
..


  p. 1816 (#750)                      #

1816
(Sept.
:
U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Referring to page 1475 of the August PROCEED-
Perry's
Original Flag
Ings in the article “Perry's Victory on Lake
& Erie," the original flag of Perry, bearing Law-
rence's motto, “Don't Give up the Ship,” is now at the Naval
Academy, and so displayed in Memorial Hall that it is the first
object to greet the eye of any midshipman or visitor.
Discussion of articles published in the PROCEED-
Discussions INGS is cordially invited. Discussions accepted
for publication are paid for at approximately
one-half the rate for original articles.
Book
Reviews
As soon as practicable after the publication of books
on subjects of professional interest, the Institute
aims to publish authoritative reviews of them.
The Institute desires to obtain a copy of Jane's
Jane's
“Fighting Ships"
Fighting Ships, 1924, the edition of which
is exhausted; and requests that anyone wish-
(1924)
ing to dispose of a copy communicate with
the Naval Institute, stating price desired and condition of book.
Storage Battery The price of Dunn's Storage Battery Manual
Manual
has been reduced from $7.00 to $2.00 per copy.
Naval Ordnance, 1921 is now under revision. The
New
new book will be ready for issue about the 15th of
Books
November, and will be known as Naval Ordnance,
1925. It will retail at $8.00 per copy, postpaid.
There has just been received from the printer a new
Radio Manual, prepared by the Depart of E. E. and
Naval Academy, for use as a textbra hidshipm
class. The book was designed
of the midshipmen, and treat
also with the sending of m


  p. 1816 (#751)                      #


United States
Naval Institute
Proceedings
VOL. 51
OCTOBER, 1925
NO. 272
NST
VAL
NAV
NAVAL
ACADEMY
U.S.
TUTA
D
* 18
SCIENTIA
13
CONTENTS
n, T
-Robinson
jet
1817
1825
1832
1838
Power and the Future of the Navy.-Eberle
1 Defense. -Tones . .
Necessary Economic and Social Welfare of the
Rodgers
arine Co
mentals.
18 His
Growt
can Navy.-Evans
Sovereig
Labor
of Go
lft.-Wilson
afft.
2.- Palmer
Data
Navies
for Old
wned
1845
1858
1871
1882
1897
1916
1925
1933
1938
1944
1954
1961
1967
2036
2045
2047
tional


  p. 1816 (#752)                      #


FUEL OIL
GAS OIL
DIESEL OIL
There is more power in
THAT GOOD GULF GASOLINE
and
SUPREME AUTO OIL
GULF REFINING COMPANY
New York
Boston
New Orleans
Philadelphia
Atlanta
Houston
General Sales Office
PITTSBURGH, PA.


  p. 1816 (#753)                      #

United States
Naval Institute
Proceedings
October, 1925
Edited by H. A. Baldridge
ORO REVOL

NS
ET
AS NAV
LIL
TUT
U.S.N
1873
viso
U. S. Naval Institute
Publication Office: Menasha, Wisconsin
Editorial and Business Office: Annapolis, Maryland


  p. 1816 (#754)                      #


Any valve or fitting
for any ship

CRANE NO. 4187E GLOBE SCREW-DOWN CHECK VALVE.
YOKE TYPE, SECTIONAL VIEW
CRANE
Address all inquiries to Crane Co., Chicago
GENERAL OFFICES CRANE BUILDING, 836 S. MICHIGAN AVENUE, CHICAGO
Branches and Sales Offices in One Hundred and Forty-eight Cities
National Exhibit Rooms: Chicago, New York, Atlantic City, San Francisco and Montreal
Works: Chicago, Bridgeport, Birmingham, Chattanooga, Trenton and Montreal
CRANE EXPORT CORPORATION: NEW YORK, SAN FRANCISCO, SHANGHAI
CRANE LIMITED: CRANE BUILDING, 386 BEAVER HALL SQUARE, MONTREAL
CRANE-BENNETT, LTD., LONDON
C9 CRANE: PARIS, NANTES, BRUSSELS


  p. 1816 (#755)                      #

UNITED STATES
NAVAL INSTITUTE
PRO CE E DINGS
Vol. No. 51, No. 10
OCTOBER, 1925
WHOLE No. 272
Contents
GENTLEMEN, The Navy. By T. DOUGLAS ROBINSON, Assistant SEC-
RETARY OF THE NAVY....
1817
NAVY DAY. BY WALTER BRUCE Howe, NATIONAL (HAIRMAN, Navy
D AY, 1925 .................................................
1825
THE ELEMENTS OF SEA Power AND THE FUTURE OF THE NAVY. BY
ADMIRAL E. W. EBERLE, L'. S. Navy........
1832
PETROLEUM AND NATIONAL DEFENSE. BY REAR ADMIRAL H. P.
JONES, U. S. Navy........
1838
MILITARY PREPAREDNESS NECESSARY TO THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL
WELFARE OF THE UNITED STATES. BY REAR ADMIRAL W. L.
RODGERS, U. S. Navy, RET........
1845
THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS. BY MAJOR GENERAL JOHN A.
LEJEUNE, U. S. M. C., MAJOR GENERAL COMMANDANT, U. S.
M. C. ...
1858
SOME AVIATION FUNDAMENTALS. By REAR ADMIRAL WILLIAM A.
MOFFETT, U, S. Navy....
1871
The Wise Man KNOWS His TOOLS. BY REAR ADMIRAL J. K. Rob-
ISON, U. S. NAVY, ENGINEER-IN-CHIEF OF THE NAVY............ 1882
THE DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH OF THE AMERICAN NAVY. BY CAP-
TAIN WALDO EVANS, U. S. Navy.....
1897
The ARRAY AGAINST SOVEREIGNTY. BY CAPTAIN WAT T. CLUVERIUS,
U. S. N AVY................................................. 1910
THE NAVAL RESEARCH LABORATORY. BY CAPTAIN PAUL FOLEY,
U . S. N A V Y .............................. ...................
1925
I'NIFIED PROCUREMENT OF GOVERNMENT AIRCRAFT. By COMMANDER
E. E. WILSON, U. S. Navy....
1933
NEW LEASE OF LIFE FOR OLD IRONSIDES. BY HERMAN F. KRAFFT.... 1938
THE GOVERNMENT-OWNED MERCHANT MARINE. By LEIGH C. PALMER 1944
COMPARATIVE NAVAL DATA FOR THE TREATY NAVIES...
1954
DISCUSSION .......................................
1961
PROFESSIONAL NOTES ....
1967
NOTES ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS...
2036
BOOK REVIEWS .....
2045
SECRETARY'S NOTES ....
2047
The writers only are responsible for the contents of their respective articles.
Editor, Captain H. A. Baldridge; Assistant Editor, Lieutenant Com-
mander R. S. Field
Published monthly at 450 Ahnaip St., Menasha, Wis.
Executive, Editorial, and Business Offices, U. S. Naval Institute,
Annapolis, Md.
Entered as second-class matter at the post-office at Menasha, Wis.,
April 4, 1922, and at the post-office at Annapolis, Md., under Act of Aug. 24,
1912. Acceptance for mailing at the special rate of postage provided for
in section 1103, Act of Oct. 3, 1919, authorized Mar. 13, 1922.
Membership dues (including Proceedings). $3.00 a year.
Subscription Rates, $5.00 a year. (Foreign postage extra.) Single
copies, 50c.
Copyright, 1925, by U. S. Naval Institute


  p. 1816 (#756)                      #

OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTE
President
REAR ADMIRAL HENRY B. WILSON, U. S. NAVY
Vice-President
REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD H. JACKSON, U. S. Navy
Secretary-Treasurer
Cap Ain H. A. BALDRIDGE, U. S. Navy
Board of Control
REAR ADMIRAL HENRY B. WILSON, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD H. JACKSON, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
BRIGADIER GENERAL GEORGE RICHARDS, U, S. MARINE CORPS
CAPTAIN W. T. CLUVERIUS, U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN W. G. DUBOSE, (CC), U. S. Navy
Captain P. B. DUNGAN, U. S. Navy
COMMANDER BYRON MCCANDLESS, U. S. Navy
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER W. G. GREENMAN, U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN H. A. BALDRIDGE, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
PAST PRESIDENTS
ADMIRAL DAVID D. PORTER, U. S. Navy, 1873
REAR ADMIRAL JOHN L. WORDEN, U. S. Navy, 1874
REAR ADMIRAL C. R. P. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1875-78
COMMODORE FOXHALL A. PARKER, U. S. Navy, 1878-79
REAR ADMIRAL JOHN RODGERS. U. S. Navy, 1870-82
REAR ADMIRAL C. R. P. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1882-83
REAR ADMIRAL THORNTON A. JENKINS, U. S. Navy, 1883-85
REAR ADMIRAL EDWARD SIMPSON, U. S. Navy, 1885-87
REAR ADMIRAL STEPHEN B. LUCE, U. S. Navy, 1887-98
REAR ADMIRAL WM. T. SAMPSON, U. S. Navy, 1898-1902
REAR ADMIRAL H. C. TAYLOR, U. S. NAVY, 1902-04
REAR ADMIRAL C. F. GOODRICH, U. S. Nayy, 1904-09
REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD WAINWRIGHT, U. S. Navy, 1909-11
REAR ADMIRAL BRADLEY A. FISKE, U. S. Navy, 1911-23
Rear ADMIRAL WILLIAM L. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1923-24


  p. 1816 (#757)                      #

Foreword
The significance and purpose of Navy Day
have now become so well known to all officers
of the Navy and Marine Corps that no com-
ment is necessary other than to invite atten-
tion to the following pages, which have been
contributed by the respective authors. The
“Comparative Data for Treaty Navies”
will be found on page 1954.
The Board of Control has authorized this
Special Information Number in the hope
that it will assist in making our fellow citi-
zens better acquainted with their Navy.


  p. 1816 (#758)                      #



  p. 1816 (#759)                      #



  p. 1816 (#760)                      #


THE ENGAGEMENT BETWEEN THE “CONSTITUTION" AND "GUERRIERE"


  p. 1817 (#761)                      #

UNITED STATES
NAVAL INSTITUTE
P R O CE E D I N GS
--
=
=
=-
=-
-
=
=
=
=
=
-
=-
Vol. No. 51, No. 10
OCTOBER, 1925
WHOLE No. 272
=====
=
=
==
=
=
=
=
=
--
-
GENTLEMEN, THE NAVY!
By T. Douglas ROBINSON, Assistant SECRETARY Of the Navy
DRESIDENT COOLIDGE once said: “Great light is always
P shed on the question of what ought to be done by finding
out what has been done.”.
The Navy League of the United States is fostering again the ob-
servance of Navy Day on October 27. The date of October 27
was chosen because it is the anniversary of the birth of the late
President Roosevelt, so much of whose life was devoted to es-
tablishing a sound naval policy for this country. It was also on
October 27, 1775, that a special committee presented to the Con-
tinental Congress a bill providing for the construction of the first
ships of the Navy. The purposes of Navy Day are to explain
the past and present services of the Navy to the nation, and to
point out the important part that the Navy holds in our plan of
national life. It should be made clear that the Navy is our first
line of defense; that it is a protection to our rapidly increasing
commerce and our merchant ships, and is a form of national in-
surance that supports our foreign policies and operates to prevent
the causes that in the past have led to wars. The President, having
signified his approval, the Navy has promised to cooperate with
the Navy League, and will be “at home” on that day to our
people throughout the land.
No better opportunity is afforded the citizens of this great
Republic to "find out” the facts concerning the Navy, reviewing
what it has done, and seeing what it is doing.


  p. 1818 (#762)                      #

1818
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Only through common understanding, trust, and confidence on
the part of the people can the Navy hope to accomplish success-
fully its many and important tasks. Far more dangerous than are
the projectiles from an enemy fleet are the false ideas concerning
the Navy's mission and its work, engendered in the minds of our
people through ignorant and misleading propaganda. The Navy
having made friends, seldom loses the friendships acquired.
To understand readily the raison d'être of our Navy, we must
necessarily review in our mind's eye the history of this Republic
from the beginning, the position that it holds in the world, the
part that our Navy played in attaining to this position, and the
part it now takes day by day in helping to maintain that position.
We are a "world power" with interests and obligations through-
out the seven seas. Through the medium of the Navy the life,
property, and the legitimate interests of you or me are afforded
a practical and effective insurance policy and protection whereso-
ever we choose to venture.
Supporting and fostering scientific endeavors in numerous fields,
the protector and friend of our merchant marine, carrying on im-
portant diplomatic missions, proceeding on errands of mercy to
earthquake stricken regions, a constant protector to our nationals
in distant lands—these and many other duties constitute the pay-
ing peace-time dividends from our National Life Insurance Policy,
the Navy.
President Coolidge, in an address to the graduating class of the
Naval Academy, recently stated: “If we are to heed the ad-
monition to put first things first, a very little deliberation would
reveal to us that one of the main essentials which lies at the very
beginning of civilization is that of security. It is only when people
can feel that their lives and the property which their industry has
produced today will continue to be safe on the morrow, that there
can be the stability of value and that economic progress on which
human development has always rested.”
Not only does the Navy afford the necessary protection to our
homes, cities, and towns from possible aggression, but it affords
the necessary protection to the products of our fields and industries
to their ultimate destination in foreign markets. Through the
Navy as agent, the federal government underwrites the American
farmer and manufacturer for the safe delivery of his products


  p. 1819 (#763)                      #

1925]
1819
Gentlemen, The Navy!
abroad. It is to be remembered that the Navy successfully under-
wrote the safe transportation of the American Army in the World
War, and landed that Army in France through submarine in-
fested waters without loss of life.
On reflecting upon the national naval policy of this country we
find, regardless of the fact that the personage in charge of the
executive branch of the government is changed every four or eight
years and represents first one political party and then another, that
there is a marked similarity of utterances from the lips of these
men, our presidents, concerning the importance of the American
Navy as a national agency and governmental department. In
considering the words of these great men we must bear in mind
certain things. First, that on taking office they execute a most
solemn oath: viz.,
"I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will faithfully execute the office
of President of the United States, and will to the best of my ability, preserve,
protect, and defend the constitution of the United States."
Further, they are elected to that high office by virtue largely of
previously announced policies or platforms, and that, ipso facto,
their election to office is indicative of the support of those policies
by the majority of the people. It therefore follows that the state-
ments of our presidents concerning the Navy are not alone the
personal views of the First Citizen, but virtually constitute the
reflected will and the voice of the people. As regards the per-
manency of national naval policy, we have but to compare the
words of our first president, in 1790, with those of the thirtieth
president, in 1925:
GEORGE WASHINGTON
January 8, 1790
To be prepared for war is one of the most effectual means of preserving
peace.
December 7, 1796
To secure respect to a neutral flag requires a naval force organized and
ready to vindicate it from insult or aggression. This may even prevent the
necessity of going to war by discouraging belligerent powers from com-
mitting such violations of the rights of the neutral party as may, first or last,
leave no other option.


  p. 1820 (#764)                      #

1820
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Calvin COOLIDGE
March 4, 1925
Our country represents nothing but peaceful intentions, but it ought not
to fail to maintain such a military force as comports with the dignity and
security of a great people. It should be conducted that all the world may
see in it but an instrument of security and peace.
Let us briefly sketch a review of our presidential announcements
on this matter :
GEORGE WASHINGTON
December 7, 1796
The art of war is at once comprehensive and complicated. It demands
much previous study, and the possession of it in its most improved and
perfect state is always of great moment to the security of a nation.
JOHN ADAMS
May 16, 1797
Naval power is the natural defense of the United States.
December 8, 1798
In demonstrating by our conduct that we do not fear war for the necessary
protection of our rights and honor we shall give no room to infer that
We abandon the desire of peace. Efficient preparation for war can alone in-
sure peace.
The beneficial effects of the small naval armament provided under the
acts of the last session are known and acknowledged. Perhaps no country
every experienced more sudden and remarkable advantages from any measure
of policy than we have derived from the arming of our maritime protec-
tion and defense. We ought without loss of time to lay the foundation
for an increase of our Navy to a sise sufficient to guard our coast and pro-
tect our trade. Such a naval force would afford the best means of general
defense.
December 3, 1799
A steady perseverance in a system of national defense commensurate
with our resources and the situation of our country is an obvious dictate of
wisdom, for nothing short of the power of repelling aggression will secure to
our country a rational prospect of escaping the calamities of war or national
degradation.
November 27, 1800
A navy, well organized, must constitute the natural and efficient defense of
this country against all foreign hostility.


  p. 1821 (#765)                      #

1925)
1821
Gentlemen, The Navy!
James Madison
May 25, 1813
The brilliant achievements of our infant Navy claim the highest praise
and the full recompense provided by Congress.
JAMES MONROE
January 30, 1824
Two great objects are therefore to be regarded in the establishment of an
adequate naval force: The first, to prevent war so far as it may be practic-
able; the second, to diminish its calamities when it may be inevitable. No
government will be disposed to violate our rights if it knows we have the
means and are prepared and resolved to defend them.
John QUINCY ADAMS
December 6, 1825
A military marine is the only arm by which our power can be estimated
or felt by foreign nations, and the only standing military force which can
never be dangerous to our own liberty.
ANDREW JACKSON
March 4, 1829
The increase of our Navy, whose flag has displayed in distant climes our
skill in navigation and our fame in arms; the preservation of our forts,
arsenals, and dockyards, and the introduction of progressive improvements
in the discipline and science of both branches of our military service are so
plainly prescribed by prudence that I should be excused for omitting their
mention sooner than for enlarging on their importance.
December 8, 1829
Constituting, as the Navy does, the best standing security of this country
against foreign aggression, it claims the special attention of government,
and should continue to be cherished as the offspring of our national ex-
perience.
JOHN TYLER
December 7, 1841
Every effort will be made to add to the efficiency of the Navy, and I
cannot too strongly urge upon you liberal appropriations to that branch of
the public service.
James K. POLK
December 2, 1845
Our reliance for protection and defense on the land must be mainly on our
citisen soldiers, who will be ever ready, as they ever have been ready in


  p. 1822 (#766)                      #

1822
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
times past, to rush with alacrity at the call of their country to her defense.
This description of force, however, cannot defend our coast, harbors, and
inland seas, nor protect our commerce on the ocean or the lakes. These
must be protected by our Navy.
ABRAHAM LINCOLN
December 8, 1863
The duties devolving on the naval branch of the service during the year,
and throughout the whole of this unhappy contest, have been discharged
with fidelity and eminent success.
The events of the war give an increased interest and importance to the
Navy, which will probably extend beyond the war itself.
U. S. GRANT
December 5, 1870
Separated by the ocean from the nations of the eastern continent, our
Navy is our only means of direct protection to our citizens abroad, or for
the enforcement of any foreign policy.
CHESTER A. ARTHUR
December 6, 1881
I cannot too strongly urge upon you my conviction that every consideration
of national safety, economy, and honor imperatively demands a thorough re-
habilitation of our Navy.
GROVER CLEVELAND
December 8, 1885
All must admit the importance of an effective Navy to a nation like ours.
BENJAMIN HARRISON
December 9, 1891
It is essential to the dignity of this nation and to that peaceful influence
which it should exercise on this hemisphere that its Navy should be ade-
quate, both upon the shores of the Atlantic and of the Pacific.
Grover CLEVELAND
December 3, 1894
During the past fiscal year there has been an unusual and pressing de-
mand in many quarters of the world for the presence of vessels to guard
American interests.


  p. 1823 (#767)                      #

1925]
1823
Gentlemen, The Navy!
William McKINLEY
December 5, 1899
The Navy has maintained the spirit and high efficiency which have al-
ways characterized that service, and has lost none of the gallantry in heroic
action which has signalized its brilliant and glorious past. The nation
has equal pride in its early and later achievements. Its habitual readiness
for every emergency has won the confidence and admiration of the coun-
try. The people are interested in the continued preparation and prestige
of the Navy and will justify liberal appropriations for its maintenance and
improvement. The officers have shown peculiar adaptation for the per-
formance of new and delicate duties which our recent war has imposed.
THEODORE ROOSEVELT
December 3, 1901
The work of upbuilding the Navy must be steadily continued. No one
point of our policy, foreign or domestic, is more important than this to
the honor and material welfare, and, above all, to the peace of our nation
in the future. Whether we desire it or not, we must henceforth recognize
that we have international duties no less than international rights. Even if
our flag were hauled down in the Philippines and Porto Rico, even if we
decided not to build the Isthmian Canal, we should need a thoroughly
trained Navy of adequate size, or else be prepared definitely and for all time
to abandon the idea that our nation is among those whose sons go down to
the sea in ships. Unless our commerce is always to be carried in foreign
bottoms, we must have war craft to protect it.
Our people intend to abide by the Monroe Doctrine and to insist upon it
as the one sure means of securing the peace of the Western Hemisphere.
The Navy offers us the only means of making our insistence upon the
Monroe Doctrine anything but a subject of derision to whatever nation
chooses to disregard it. We desire the peace which comes as of right to
the just man armed, not the peace granted on terms of ignominity to the
craven and the weakling.
December 3, 1906
The United States Navy is the surest guarantor of peace which this
country possesses.
WILLIAM HOWARD Taft
December 6, 1912
The world's history has shown the importance of sea power both for
adequate defense and for the support of important and definite policies.


  p. 1824 (#768)                      #

1824
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
WOODROW WILSON
December 8, 1914
A powerful navy we have always regarded as our proper and natural
means of defense, and it has always been of defense that we have thought,
never of aggression or of conquest. But who shall tell us now what sort of
a Navy to build? We shall take leave to be strong upon the seas, in the
future as in the past; and there will be no thought of offense or of pro-
vocation in that. Our ships are our natural bulwarks.
WARREN GAMALIEL HARDING
July 27, 1923
We owe it to ourselves to understand that the Navy is rather more than
a mere instrumentality of warfare. It is the right arm of the Department
of State, seeing to the enforcement of its righteous pronouncements. It
guards the security of American citizens wherever they are, the world over.
One could not fully reverence his flag if he did not feel that its unfolding
meant security for Americans wherever they seek its proper protection.
It has our colors afloat today almost everywhere on the seven seas-at
Smyrna to offer proper restraint and relief; in Chinese waters to make for
security; in all waters to urge tranquility and maintain righteousness;
and with it all to emphasize our confidence in ourselves and our sense of
obligation at home.
Calvin CoolidGE
December 6, 1923
A people who neglect their national defense are putting in jeopardy their
national honor.
It is fitting that we should on Navy Day reflect upon the per-
manency of our national naval policy and that not only the Navy
but the people should pause to consider "what ought to be done by
finding out what has been done."


  p. 1825 (#769)                      #

NAVY DAY
By Walter Bruce Howe, NationAL CHAIRMAN, Navy Day,
1925
TAVY DAY was first sponsored by the Navy League of the
I United States, a volunteer association of individuals, who
seek to place information concerning the Navy before
the public, and since that time the official approval and cooperation
of practically all patriotic and veterans' organizations have been
offered in support of the observance of the day.
The sponsors of Navy Day have sought to establish at least one
day in the year when the people will turn their thoughts in a
special way to what their Navy means to them, when special ar-
ticles will be timely in the press, and when tribute can be paid to
the past and present services of the Navy to the nation.
October 27 has been celebrated as Navy Day because it is the
anniversary of the birth of President Theodore Roosevelt, so
much of whose life was devoted to establishing a sound naval
policy for the United States of America. It will be remembered
that President Roosevelt first achieved a national reputation by
writing a naval history of the war of 1812, a work of such merit
that it was incorporated into Clowe's Royal Navy, a monumental
history of the British sea service. Later, as Assistant Secretary
of the Navy, and finally, as president, Roosevelt bent his tre-
mendous energies to impress upon the American people the neces-
sity for an adequate navy, and through his leadership to realize
this ideal.
October 27 is also the birthday of the American Navy because on
that day in 1775, the first resolution to authorize American war-
ships was introduced into the Continental Congress, which measure
was passed three days later.
Navy Day was first celebrated in 1922, at which time President
Harding, in endorsing the observance, wrote:
From our earliest national beginnings the Navy has always been, and
deserved to be, an object of special pride to the American people. Its


  p. 1826 (#770)                      #


From a photograph copyrighted by H. Havelock Pierce
THEODORE ROOSEVELT


  p. 1827 (#771)                      #

1925]
1827
Navy Day
record is indeed one to inspire such sentiments and I am very sure that
such a commemoration as is planned will be a timely reminder.
It is well for us to have in mind that under a program of lessening navy
armaments there is a greater reason for maintaining the highest efficiency,
fitness, and morale in this branch of the national defensive service.
In connection with the first observance, Secretary of State
Charles Evans Hughes wrote:
The celebration of Navy Day has my hearty approval. This government
has taken the lead in securing the reduction of naval armament, but the
navy that we retain under the agreement should be maintained with efficient
personnel and pride in the service. It is essential that we should maintain
the relative naval strength of the United States. That, in my judgment, is
the way to peace and security. It will be upon that basis that we would
enter any future conference or make agreements for limitation, and it would
be folly to undermine our position.
President Coolidge said in connection with Navy Day in 1923:
Our country has undertaken, as its proper contribution to ameliorating
the burdens of armament in the world, to place certain strict limits on our
naval establishment. In view of these, which it need not be said will
always be strictly observed, it becomes desirable that the highest efficiency,
in men and material, be maintained.
The Navy is the first line of defense. Our national situation makes it
peculiarly important to us, for we have never been committed to the policy
of a large army, relying, to a greater extent than less-favored countries
might, on the advantage of our location and our confidence in an adequate
navy.
This traditional devotion of the Navy to the highest usefulness and effi-
ciency makes it especially fitting that Navy Day be so observed as to show
the country's appreciation of this splendid service.
It is interesting to know that the first observance of the day re-
ceived the endorsements of Senator Lodge, who served along with
Secretary Hughes as a delegate to the Washington Conference
for the Limitation of Armaments, of the governors of thirty-four
states, and literally hundreds of senators, representatives, and
other prominent men and women throughout the country. Since
then the day has met with very general approval as an appropriate
occasion to pay a deserved tribute to the naval service.
The Navy is brought to the attention of the people many times
throughout the year in various ways, especially in press dispatches,
but these usually deal with only one or another of the phases of
the work the Navy is doing. Apart from Navy Day, there is


  p. 1828 (#772)                      #

1828
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
little opportunity to place before the public some thought of the
fundamental reasons why we maintain a navy.
The Navy has always entered wholeheartedly into the ob-
servance of the day. Naval vessels visit cities along the coasts and
up navigable rivers, wherever these visits do not interfere ma-
terially with the training and employment of the fleet. Visitors are
received on ships and at shore stations, and every opportunity is
given the people to view their Navy at first hand. The oppor-
tunity to visit ships of the Navy is highly prized. Over 350,000
visitors were received on board the vessels which visited Atlantic
ports on Navy Day, 1924.
The press has been almost unanimous in encouraging a better
understanding of the Navy. Editorials were received in connec-
tion with Navy Day, 1922, from newspapers with an aggregate
circulation of over 12,000,000. Over 95 per cent approved the
celebration. This splendid praise of the naval service has mounted
annually until the circulation heard from in 1924 exceeded
18,000,000 copies.
Navy Day, 1922, following as it did the notable accomplishment
of the Washington Conference, was made an occasion to emphasize
the importance of the conference to the country and at the same
time to point out to the American people that there is a negative
as well as a positive implication of the treaties which grew out of
the conference.
So many people hold the erroneous idea that the Navy is only
the instrument of war, that attention was concentrated the next
two years on explaining the great peace-time value of the Navy;
how naval contracts with their exacting specifications have been
largely responsible for the development of the manufacture of
steel in this country, which has enormously benefited people in all
walks of life; how the Navy charts the seas and helps to keep
the ocean lanes free from derelicts, icebergs, and other menaces to
navigation; how the clocks of the nation are set from the Naval
Observatory. The great service the Navy has rendered to hu-
manity in disasters, such as those in Smyrna and Japan, was
pointed out.
Among the points which the sponsors hope to indicate this year
is the fact that for the great protection and service which the
Navy renders, it does not cost an excessive amount in taxation.


  p. 1829 (#773)                      #

1925]
1829
Navy Day
The appropriation for the maintenance of the Navy for the year
1925-26 was $289,000,000. The appropriation for the year
1914-15 was over $140,000,000. At first glance this doubling
of the cost of the Navy is startling. The two years offer a fair
basis of comparison because the 1914 appropriations were made
before there was any indication of the World War, and this
year's appropriations were made on the assumption that this coun-
try at least has returned to a peace basis. Why, then, should our
naval costs have doubled in eleven years ?
The difference in the purchasing power of the dollar counts
for practically all of the increase. Figures compiled by the De-
partment of Labor and released on July 25, 1925, show that the
cost of living has increased 73.5 per cent in the last eleven years.
This figure is arrived at by averaging the cost of a long list of the
necessities of life.
The largest single item in the naval appropriation is the pay and
upkeep of personnel. Naval pay has been increased, which in-
crease, however, has not kept pace with the increased pay in
civilian industries. The cost of food stuffs, clothing, and housing
facilities furnished naval personnel, the cost of labor in navy
yards, and construction costs on naval vessels have all increased
because these products are bought in competitive markets.
If we take the index figure furnished by the Labor Department,
we find that $289,000,000 in 1925 has approximately the same pur-
chasing power as $165,000,000 in 1914. There has, therefore, been
an actual increase in the naval appropriations, based on purchas-
ing power, of about 17 per cent.
Considering that the United States maintained the Navy in 1914
far inferior to her standing in world affairs, it would seem that
this increase is very modest indeed. In 1912, the national wealth
was estimated at $186,000,000,000, making us the wealthiest
country in the world. Our foreign trade amounted to little less
than $4,000,000,000 annually. Of this less than 10 per cent was
carried in American bottoms. Our coast line, then as now, was
one of the most extensive in the world not to mention the defense
problems presented by the Panama Canal which is an essential ele-
ment in the defense plans of this country. There were, then as
now, the Philippine Islands lying 7,000 miles from our shore, to


  p. 1830 (#774)                      #

1830
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
which we have accorded the protection of the American flag. With
this situation in world affairs, however, the United States Navy
was a bad third, with Great Britain first, and Germany second.
The population of continental United States was then 98,000,000.
Our population today is 115,000,000, an increase of 17 per cent.
Our national wealth is estimated at $350,000,000,000. Keeping
in mind the reduced purchasing power of the dollar, the national
wealth has kept pace with the growth of population. Our foreign
trade is now well over $8,000,000,000 annually. On the basis of
the adjusted dollar, as well as on the basis of tonnage, this is an
increase of over 25 per cent. What is most important, nearly 40
per cent of this foreign trade is carried in ships of American
registry.
One of the most important and least realized functions of the
Navy is to protect our commerce in peace and in war. It is a
function that is lost sight of by those who advocate purely a coast-
defense policy for this country.
A few air enthusiasts who have declared that surface warships
are obsolete lose sight of the impracticability of the prohibitive
cost of stationing airplanes all over the world to protect our
merchant marine.
In 1914 there were about $2,500,000,000 of American capital
invested in foreign countries, practically all of which was repre-
sented by investments in Canada and Latin America. Today
American capital in excess of $25,000,000,000 is invested abroad,
of which amount $12,000,000,000 were loaned by the United
States Treasury to foreign governments.
Still keeping in mind that it takes $1.73 now to buy as much
as a dollar would buy in 1913, we have the following figures :
our population has increased 17 per cent; our national wealth,
over 17 per cent; our foreign trade, 25 per cent; the amount of
American trade carried in American ships, 400 per cent; the
amount of American capital invested abroad, 1,000 per cent. In
the meantime, the cost of the Navy has increased 17 per cent.


  p. 1831 (#775)                      #


“GUARDING THE GIANT" FROM A PAINTING BY BURNELL POOLE
U.S.S. McCall depicted escorting the transport Olympic with the U.S.S. Stockton out ahead of the Olympic.


  p. 1832 (#776)                      #

THE ELEMENTS OF SEA POWER AND THE
FUTURE OF THE NAVY
BY ADMIRAL E. W. EBERLE, U. S. Navy, Chief of NAVAL
OPERATIONS
CINCE the day the ship made possible the transportation of
merchandise by sea the great nations of the world have been
found among those having extensive coast lines. History
proves that world power is measured by sea power and that na-
tional prosperity can continue only so long as a nation is willing
to maintain its sea power commensurate with its prosperity.
What are the fundamental factors of sea power?
They are:
1. Naval strength sufficient to insure free movement of na-
tional sea-borne trade.
2. A merchant marine of sufficient size and suitable charac-
teristics to carry the nation's products to the markets of
the world, to bring from such markets the products re-
quired for national prosperity, and, in time of war, to
carry on essential war time trade and to furnish auxil-
iaries and transportation for naval and army forces.
3. A sufficient number of well located and suitably equipped
and defended bases throughout the world, to afford sup-
port and protection to commerce, and operating bases for
the fleet.
In recent years the people of the United States have come to
realize the necessity for an American merchant marine, and the
government, by its support of the Shipping Board and Emergency
Fleet Corporation, has shown its appreciation of the value of the
merchant marine as a fundamental factor of sea power.
The value of a merchant marine increases with each restriction
in naval armaments. If war ships were abolished, the merchant
marines of the nations would have the potential power of navies.
It is, therefore, essential that the people of this nation realize that


  p. 1833 (#777)                      #

1925]
1833
Elements of Sea Power
restriction in naval armament imposes the necessity for a stronger
merchant marine.
In respect to well located and suitably equipped and defended
bases, the United States is badly handicapped by the fact that most
of the best bases of the world were in the hands of comparatively
strong nations when the United States was founded. For many
years our traditional policy of isolation prevented attempts to
obtain suitable bases.
As a result of the war with Spain, the United States came into
possession of the Philippines and Porto Rico and, through the
aroused nationalism resulting from that war, entered into an era
of industrial and commercial activity which placed it in the fore-
front of world powers.
Thirty years ago we had no possessions outside of the conti-
nental United States except Alaska. Since that time we have ac-
quired the Philippines, Samoa, Guam, Hawaiian Islands, Porto
Rico, Panama Canal Zone, Guantanamo, and the Virgin Islands.
While it cannot be said that many of these were obtained with a
view to their use as bases, the change in policy which permitted
their acquisition was the result of a tardy recognition of the value
of bases as a factor of sea power.
The third fundamental factor of sea power is naval strength.
What is naval strength ?
In the days when the word "navy” became of general use,
weapons and ships were primitive. Control of sea communications
could be exercised only by the surface ships. As a result of this
condition the word navy was applied to forces composed of ships
alone, and even in the present day, has, to most people, this re-
stricted meaning. As a result of this restricted interpretation, the
reason for a navy has, to some extent, been lost sight of, and we
now find a tendency, as indicated by the air service advocates,
to confine the equipment of the Navy to ships and that which can
be operated from ships.
Efficiency in these modern days is measured by two factors:
first, tools or equipment suitable to the performance of the task;
second, skill in use of such tools or equipment. But, before tools
can be selected or skill acquired there must be a definite assignment
of a task. The task assigned to the Navy in war is the control of
vital lines of sea communication. The tools required are surface


  p. 1834 (#778)                      #

1834
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ships, submarines, and aircraft. The necessary skill can be ac-
quired only by using these tools in cooperation.
If the Navy is to perform its task effectively there must be an
acceptance of a broad definition of the word navy. The people
and the government must recognize that the Navy is that branch
of the national defense which is charged with the control of vital
lines of sea communications. This is a distinct branch of na-
tional defense and, whereas, in the past surface ships have been
the chief tools, it should be recognized that with changes in the
methods of conducting war the tools may change. The Navy
must comprise such types of vessels and equipment as are best
fitted to accomplish its task. Any weapons or equipment, or any
types of forces which can be used effectively in the accomplish-
ment of its task, legitimately belong to the Navy.
This principle has been recognized in the past by the organiza-
tion of the Marine Corps to assist the Navy in defending or
seizing temporary bases for fleet operations and in the provision
of shore establishments for the construction of ships, guns, tor-
pedoes, and so forth; the manufacture of experimental aircraft,
the preparation of charts and books (such as the Nautical Al-
manac) used in navigation of ships and by aircraft engaged in
oversea flights.
It is equally applicable to the use by the Navy of aircraft based
on shore. Whether or not such aircraft should be operated by
the Navy depends entirely on the function they are to perform.
Aircraft operating with a view to the control of sea communica-
tions must be coordinated in their operations with vessels engaged
in similar duties, and with the control and routing of shipping
which is a naval function.
The NAVAL FORCES
The naval forces of the nation are divided into three major
subdivisions, the fleet, the naval transportation service, and local
defense forces.
The Fleet.–Capital ship strength is limited by treaty and no
further capital ship construction can be undertaken before 1931.
The tonnage of aircraft carriers of more than 10,000 tons dis-
placement is also limited, but the United States, even when the
Saratoga and Lexington are completed, will not be up to allowed


  p. 1835 (#779)                      #

1925)
1835
Elements of Sea Power
strength. The construction of additional aircraft carrier tonnage
must be undertaken if the Navy is to maintain the proper air
strength of the fleet.
In modern cruisers the United States Navy is far below its
proper strength. This type is limited in size and armament by
the treaty, but there is no restriction as to numbers. To attain
a cruiser ratio with Great Britain and Japan, the same as that
accepted for capital ships, we need twenty additional cruisers of
10,000 tons displacement.
In submarines the United States is superior in vessels of the
coastal type, but is much inferior in vessels capable of operating
with the fleet. The need for large submarines is urgent.
The operation of destroyers simulating war conditions con-
tinues to emphasize the need for destroyer leaders. Although
we possess a superiority in destroyers, many of these vessels are
old and none has been authorized since 1917. Japan is building
destroyers superior to our destroyers in size, speed, and arma-
ment. Newspaper reports indicate that Great Britain will adopt
a plan for constructing nine destroyers yearly. The superiority
we now possess will rapidly diminish with time, and with the
new construction of destroyers by Great Britain and Japan.
In naval aviation the developments during the past year have
been greater than ever before. The increase in the number of
planes capable of operations with the fleet has permitted the fur-
ther development of standard practice instructions for aircraft
operations, and tactical exercises have furnished opportunities
for the operation of aircraft in the simulation of war.
Preparations are being made to place the Lexington and Sara-
toga in commission with full aviation completements during 1926.
Three navy planes are preparing for a flight from the west
coast to Hawaii. This is the longest non-stop flight ever attempted
over the sea. The planes to be employed are of two designs de-
veloped by the Navy for scouting purposes.
The Secretary of the Navy has directed that a course in aviation
shall constitute part of the Naval Academy curriculum. In the
case of the class of 1926 a portion of this class will take the
course after graduation but before assignment to duty, while one
third of the class has completed the ground school course this
summer. This course should provide officers with a knowledge of


  p. 1836 (#780)                      #

1836
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
aviation and it is hoped that it will increase interest and requests
for further training in aviation.
During the past year the high standard of efficiency in gunnery
and engineering performances has been maintained. Tactical,
strategical, and joint army and navy exercises have been conducted.
The joint army and navy exercises conducted in the Hawaiian
Islands during April, 1925, was the most extensive exercise of
this nature ever conducted by United States forces and afforded
excellent training for large units of the Army, Navy, and Marine
Corps.
The Naval Transportation Service.—It is impracticable to main-
tain in the Navy in time of peace the great number of auxiliaries,
storeships, tankers, colliers, and so forth required during war for
the supply and transportation of army and navy forces. The
merchant marine constitutes the source from which the govern-
ment may obtain such vessels. The vessels so obtained during
war are assigned to the fleet or to the naval transportation service.
Because of the menace of the submarine during the World War,
the Navy took over and manned the greater portion of all United
States vessels engaged in transportation of troops and stores for
our forces abroad. At one period during the World War the
number of ships operated by the naval transportation service
reached the enormous total of 558.
It will be seen from the above that the merchant marine is a
most important factor in sea power. Without adequate supply
our fleet is limited to its radius of action from some well stocked
naval base. With an adequate supply of fuel, food, and other
necessities the fleet can operate anywhere in the world, so long as
the lines of communication can be controlled.
The Local Defense Forces comprise the vessels and aircraft
operating under the commandants of naval districts for the pro-
tection of coastal sea areas. This includes a service of information
to determine the presence of enemy forces, and combat forces to
destroy any enemy forces located.
The local defense forces are concerned only with the defense
against secondary operation. Against primary or major opera-
tions the fleet would be used.
There has been an attempt to remove from naval jurisdiction
all aircraft based on shore. Such policy is based upon a consid-


  p. 1837 (#781)                      #

1925]
1837
Elements of Sea Power
eration of the type of weapons to be employed and not on the
result to be accomplished, and is unsound.
The Navy requires aircraft for use from shore bases as a part
of the naval local defense forces and may further require them in
support of the fleet against a superior fleet. Such air forces are
a legitimate part of the naval force and the Navy would be reduced
in efficiency for the performance of its task if these were removed
from navy jurisdiction.
Unity of command over all forces employed in a given operation
or for the accomplishment of a definite task was one of the great
lessons of the World War which should not be forgotten.
The Future of the United States Navy.—If the people of the
United States forget the value of sea power as they did after the
Revolution, the War of 1812, and the Civil War, the future of
the Navy is not bright; but if the value of sea power is recognized
as it was after the war with Spain, and the nation enters into a
period of prosperity such as followed that war, the Navy should
have a brilliant future. Then the Navy will be recognized as a
branch of the government charged with a particular task.
The future of the Navy may be said to rest upon the indoctrina-
tion of the people of the nation with three fundamental truths :
First: National strength and prosperity depend upon the main-
tenance of adequate sea power.
Second: Sea power comprises the Navy, the merchant marine,
and suitable bases.
Third: The Navy is that branch of the national defense charged
with the control of communications by sea irrespective of whether
such control is exercised by surface ships, submarines, or aircraft.


  p. 1838 (#782)                      #

PETROLEUM AND NATIONAL DEFENSE
By Rear ADMIRAL H. P. JONES, U. S. Navy, CHAIRMAN
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE, GENERAL BOARD
IN APPROACHING the subject of national defense from any
| angle, it is necessary to keep clearly in mind the real meaning
of the term. Unfortunately, it is the general tendency of the
man in the street to think of national defense in terms of coast
and territorial defense only, whereas, for us at least, this, in reality,
is a comparatively small and the most easily cared for part of our
national defense. Due to our geographical location, any possible
enemies, if such there may be, in order to attack our homeland,
must cross wide expanses of ocean, entailing operations organized
on an enormous scale and carried out in face of practically over-
whelming odds.
National defense in its real sense means defense of our lines
of communication across the seas, our commerical interests, our
rights as a neutral sanctioned by international law in wars not our
own, the lives and property of our nationals wherever they may be,
and our outlying possessions as well as the defense of our coast
and continental territory. The disruption of our commerical in-
tercourse with the rest of the world by cutting our lines of com-
munication across the seas would bring incalculable harm to our
social and economic life. Therefore, it may be truly and fairly
said that national defense means defense of the whole of our
structure of life, both political and economic. It should be remem-
bered that the World War was not won by defeating the German
armed forces, but by the breaking down of the national morale
due to economic conditions back of the Hindenburg line. This
was brought about very largely by the blockade that disrupted
Germany's lines of communication overseas. Since the Napoleonic
Wars, warfare has become more and more a national movement,
until now it calls for the mobilization of practically whole na-
tions—industrial as well as man power—for its prosecution. Its
effects are felt in the remotest hamlet of the country, even though


  p. 1839 (#783)                      #

1925)
1839
Petroleum and National Defense
not a single one of its men may be actually enrolled in the fighting
forces.
It is often affirmed that the United States is self-supporting to
the extent that we can live entirely upon the products of the coun-
try and are not dependent on foreign commodities except for non-
necessities. This is an erroneous and a dangerous doctrine, for,
while it may be true that a part of the population in the country
can survive on what is raised on the farms for a season and even,
in the last analysis, on roots and herbs, our enormous urban and
industrial population would soon be brought to the verge of starva-
tion if deprived of the many necessities that come from outside.
Unquestionably, lack of many key commodities such as, for in-
stance, rubber, manganese ore, tin, and so forth, not produced
within our borders but which must be brought from overseas,
would so disrupt the economic and industrial life of the nation
that incalculable misery would result, even to the point of national
defeat, although our actual armed forces may still be unconquered
and our shores untouched by the foot of a foe. When we envisage
this true meaning of national defense, we must realize the absolute
necessity of preserving our communications with the rest of the
world at all times and in all circumstances.
It is a fundamental truth that the power to keep open the lines
along which its commerce is carried is necessary to the commercial
life and prosperity of a nation that is engaged in trade outside of
its own borders. At the present time and as far into the future as
human vision can reach such lines of communication are, and will
continue to be, on the surface of the sea. Therefore, sea power
will be necessary to keep such lines of communication open. The
two most important elements of sea power are: (a) a powerful
and efficient navy; (b) a merchant marine adequate to the task of
carrying on the nation's trade and of supplying its fleet in time
of war.
An absolutely inescapable requisite to the fulfilment of the mis-
sions of the fleet and the merchant marine is that the ships shall
be able to move upon the sea.
It is needless to trace the development of the motive power of
ships from the oars of the Phænician galleys to the steam turbine
and Diesel engine of today—from human brawn and muscle to


  p. 1840 (#784)                      #

1840
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
hydrocarbon fuel, whether raw coal or petroleum products, as the
source of power. Suffice it to say that the galley has wholly dis-
appeared and the sailing ship is almost gone from the sea. Possibly
we are even now passing from the age of steam to the age of the
internal combustion engine, and it may be that the giant turbines
of the Leviathan will be an anachronism on the sea in a few years.
The transition from coal to oil as fuel has been demanded by
commercial carriers due to the greater radius of action, economy
of labor, more rapid turn-around on voyages, and other causes
made possible by use of oil. In the case of naval vessels the rea-
sons for the transition are even more compelling. Therefore, coal
as a fuel for sea-borne traffic of all kinds is being rapidly super-
seded by oil, even for steam-driven plants. The further transition
from steam to the internal combustion engine drive is the demand
made by commerce today for the same reasons as given above for
the transition from coal to oil. This rapid conversion of commer-
cial carriers to the internal combustion engine drive intimately
concerns the Navy in that it vitally affects the operating problems
of the fleet, rendering liquid fuel more and more a necessity in
time of war. In the case of steam-driven machinery the conver-
sion from coal to oil as fuel or vice versa is a comparatively simple
process, involving only changes in boilers, furnaces, auxiliaries,
and bunker spaces, the machinery plant as a whole remaining prac-
tically the same; whereas the change from liquid to solid fuel, in
the case of internal combustion engine drive, would necessitate an
entire change in the whole machinery plant, involving an almost
complete interior reconstruction of the ship. In view of the fact
that the supply requirements of the Navy in an oversea campaign
in war will include fully 65 per cent of the whole deep water ton-
nage under the American flag (includes 80 per cent of all tanker
tonnage) the problem of supply would be prohibitively complicated
if the transportation of two kinds of fuel were involved. There-
fore, although many of the vessels of the fleet itself are steam
driven, the fuel should be liquid and raw coal should not be con-
sidered. In addition to navy requirements it must be remembered
that the whole army service of supply, involving movements of
troops, artillery, ammunition, provisions, and so forth, is practi-
cally, and all aerial operations of both services are absolutely,
dependent upon petroleum products for fuel, lubrication, and so


  p. 1841 (#785)                      #

1925)
1841
Petroleum and National Defense
forth. From whatever angle the situation may be viewed, petro-
leum and petroleum products are becoming more and more basic-
ally essential to the life of the nation.
There is nothing in sight or even on the distant horizon that
will either take the place of petroleum or materially reduce the
amount we need. The prophecy so often heard that something
will be found to take its place when our supply is exhausted is a
mere draft upon imagination and a fatuous willingness to leave
our future economic independence in time of peace, or possibly
our very political existence in time of war, to the hazards of
chance.
There are many who lull themselves with the belief that foreign
sources will be at our command at all times and that we shall have
the price to pay. This argues a child-like faith in the commercial
altruism of our trade competitors in time of peace and ignores
such details as the hazards of the sea, hostile operations, questions
of the neutrality of the sources of supply, and so forth, in time of
war. That an ample supply should be available within our own
continental borders in time of war needs no argument. The com-
modily so absolutely vital to the very existence of the nation must
not be dependent upon foreign supply and overseas transportation,
else disaster and defeat will be inevitable, for even if there were
overseas sources upon which we could draw freely without inter-
national complications as to violations of neutrality, and so forth,
it would be necessary to call so heavily on the fleet for protection
of the lines of communication that the armed forces in the actual
combatant area must needs be seriously depleted.
What we need and should have are huge ground reserves of oil
capable of being drawn upon without delay to supply the petroleum
products needed by the armed forces and industries in the event
of war, and a sufficient amount of overground storage to take care
of our week to week needs. It is yet possible for the United States
to have this vast reserve of petroleum stored in its natural reser-
voirs, thereby insuring safety and low cost, and capable of quick
delivery to our seaports and industrial centers without the risk of
ocean transportation. But, we must remember that petroleum,
like other mineral raw materials, is a wasting asset. No other
mineral among those essential to the well-being of the country
has shown so rapid an increase in production and also in rate of


  p. 1842 (#786)                      #

1842
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
depletion. The question is, how long can we keep up the pace we
are going and still have any reserve stored in the natural reser-
voirs ?
There are too many who comfort themselves with the thought
that there is an adequate ground reserve of petroleum in the United
States to take care of our needs as far into the future as we need
look, but this has no evidence of being based on anything more
than a mere guess, and that guess is contrary to all scientific in-
vestigation. The authoritative estimates by geologists that the
original supply of petroleum in the United States is more than
forty per cent gone should give us pause in the wild scramble for
oil that is going on at present.
In spite of the persistent warnings and earnest pleadings of
geologists and others whose prision reaches beyond the immediate
present, we have been, and still continue to be, criminally wasteful
of this most vital asset that, once gone, can never be built up again.
From 1906 to 1923 the production of crude oil increased by leaps
and bounds, but by the end of the latter year it began to decline
and in 1924 showed a decrease of 2 per cent from that of 1923.
Consumption has increased somewhat faster than production and
continues to increase in ever greater ratio. The following figures
will tell somewhat of the amazing story of oil. The years 1920,
1923, and 1924 are chosen as generally typical of production and
consumption of petroleum in barrels of forty-two gallons.
1920 1923 1924
Production of crude petroleum ........442,929,000 732,407,000 714,000,000
Imports from Mexico' .... ......... 106,163,000 79,354,000 73,981,000
Imports from all other sources ........ 12,000 2,661,000 3,796,000
Domestic consumption ................530,532,000 714,316,000 748,082,000
Pipe line and tank farm stocks (com-
mercial storage) as of December 31 ..
334,774,000 352,896,000
Average recovery of gasoline ........ 26 per cent
33 per cent
It was estimated that the recoverable crude oil remaining in the
ground within the continental limits of the United States in 1922
was 9,150,000,000 barrels. Of course, this estimate may be con-
sidered a guess, but it is a scientific guess based on studies of
geological formations with relation to their petroleum possibilities.
When it is realized that only 25 per cent of the oil in the sands is
recovered, some idea may be formed of our present wasteful


  p. 1843 (#787)                      #

1925]
1843
Petroleum and National Defense
methods of production. It is, indeed, a sad commentary on our
methods of production that such is the case. New fields may be
found and sinking of wells deeper to reach lower strata of oil-
bearing sands naturally will prolong somewhat the life of our oil
supply, but, even if we should double the amount as estimated in
1922, which is a liberal hope to say the least, the end of our oil
supply is not far off. The statement of an English speaker not
long since, that in a few years we should be driven to British
sources for our oil supply, and that when that time comes the
United States will pay back to Great Britain far more than Great
Britain owes the United States, will not be far from the truth if
we continue wastefully to use up our petroleum reserves as we
are doing at the present time.
In the last resort the optimist points to our shale beds as justifi-
cation for the reckless dissipation of our ground reserves. In
reality this cannot be reconciled with commonplace wisdom any
more than to say that we would be justified in wastefully using the
anthracite coal beds of Pennsylvania because there are large de-
posits of bituminous coal in Colorado and Alaska. However, this
does not mean that serious attention should not be given to the
production of oil from other sources than from wells, such as the
shales, distillates of coal, and so forth. But, production from these
sources or on anything like a quantity basis is yet in the experi-
mental stage and it is exceedingly dangerous to trust our national
security to a hope that, like the pot of gold at the base of the rain-
bow, may never materialize or, at best, may not have been devel-
oped when the unforeseen hour of need strikes.
Surely "adequate supply and reasonable conservation” are not
antagonistic terms and the writer believes that when the great oil
producers of the country meet the President's Oil Conservation
Commission in a truly patriotic spirit, means will be found to meet
current demands and at the same time secure ground reserves of
oil for the nation's needs that will be an insurance against war and
a fair assurance of victory if, unhappily, war should be forced
upon us.


  p. 1844 (#788)                      #


Photograph by Burnell Poole
U.S.S. "NEVADA" AND DOWNTOWN MANHATTAN


  p. 1845 (#789)                      #

MILITARY PREPAREDNESS NECESSARY TO
THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL WELFARE
OF THE UNITED STATES:
By REAR ADMIRAL W. L. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, Ret.
IN A MESSAGE to Congress, George Washington, President
I of the United States, said:
To be prepared for war is one of the most effectual means of preserv-
ing peace.
There is a rank due the United States among nations which will be
withheld, if not absolutely lost, by the reputation of weakness. If we desire
to avoid insult, we must be able to repel it; if we desire to secure peace,
one of the most powerful instruments of our rising prosperity, it must be
known that we are at all times ready for war.
The changing conditions of social life have not changed for us
the essential truth of that great man's message to his fellow
countrymen, for new conditions have not altered the nature of
man. The litany of the church prays, “From the violence of our
enemies, Good Lord, deliver us.” But, God helps those who help
themselves, and we must use our own strength and our own efforts
as well as rely upon the Lord. It is vain to hope that others will
exert themselves in our behalf if we ourselves remain passive. If
some strong nation seeks advantage over us by war, new inter-
national law for peace will not aid much, for among those who
should enforce the law will be the very ones who hope to gain by
assailing us.
It is contended that the armed forces of the United States are
necessary to its industrial security. It is proposed, therefore, to
indicate, first, what our industrial position is with regard to the
rest of the world, and how others look at it and at ourselves; and
secondly, how we may preserve in safety our present favorable
economic situation. We all want peace with security and the
enjoyment of the fruits of our labor: as the Declaration of Inde-
pendence puts it, we are entitled to life, liberty, and the pursuit of
* Debate in New York, March 15, 1925.


  p. 1846 (#790)                      #

1846
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
happiness. As individuals, we expect that for ourselves, and as
a nation, we must not be seduced into accepting less for the coun-
try. We do not know what fortune our pursuit of happiness will
bring to each one of us, but assuredly, we need liberty for that
pursuit. As individuals, we now have liberty under protection of
the law, which itself is backed by the police, by the courts, and
by the jails, and, as a nation, we shall have liberty-economic
liberty—only under the protection of our own strength. Liberty
and security are not always compatible with peace. For this great
nation of ours, its security requires armies and navies to protect
its coasts from bombardment and our soil from invasion; and,
moreover, we must preserve ability to protect our national eco-
nomic policies from annulment and our standards of living from
interference by envious nations. The essential object of this
discussion is that we must maintain armed force in order to retain
freedom in our business relations with the rest of the world without
dictation from nations wielding greater force, perhaps without
even-handed justice.
As for our position in the international world, our first fore-
fathers came here three centuries ago, and after a few years of
hardship while establishing their footing, they and their descend-
ants to this day have lived in ease which other countries do not
enjoy. As we all know, all men are supported either directly or
indirectly from the products of the soil. Here, abundance of land
has made life less toilsome than for most communities. All of the
people of Europe have sent forth their emigrants, drawn here by
our prosperity consequent upon unoccupied land.
Now, the western frontier of two generations ago no longer
exists and new land is less readily secured. Instinctively, we feel
that all of the land now occupied will be needed by ourselves for
our children; and for long, the immigration laws have been in-
creasing in stringency in deference to this instinctive impulse.
Recently our thought has passed from instinct to reason, and we
are resolved to hold this land of ours for ourselves; or at least,
if admitting others, only to do so upon our own restrictive terms.
But, this decision puts us in conflict with the wishes and policies
of other nations, who, urged by poverty and by pressure of popu-
lation, wish to send their sons to share our prosperity, even
against our will. If we yield to those whose policy is to maintain


  p. 1847 (#791)                      #

1925]
1847
Military Prepuredness
an unrestricted birth rate and export their surplus population,
then will the newcomers improve their opportunities at the expense
of those now here. We see all employers individually wishing to
secure cheap labor. Every housewife wishes her work shared and
reduced by low-priced help. For three centuries, while land was
still plentiful, each influx of newcomers increased the welfare of
those already here. That day has passed, and now the newcomers
benefit themselves, but not the general public. Although all em-
ployers, from the great corporation to the mistress of the house-
hold, individually still seek the lowest priced help, collectively, the
people of the country have decided that it is better for the nation
to preserve its present high wages and machine industries, even
in household work, rather than lower our national standards of
living by admitting freely all would-be immigrants. Hencefor-
ward, this final decision as to our economic policy must be main-
tained against the efforts of others, jealous of our prosperity, and
anxious to share it, even to our detriment.
For this reason, as it seems to me, we need protection against
the violence of others; and the richer we are, the more we need to
take measures of security. There are many well-meaning people
among us, probably more in this country than elsewhere, who be-
lieve that safety may be reached through non-resistance and that
war (that is, the application of organized force by one state
against another) can be done away with by some form of agree-
ment. It is the view which ignores history, and every true Ameri-
can should review the steps by which the national temperament of
our people has developed along lines which deceive us in our in-
ternational outlook, and perhaps may involve us in loss, even if
not in injury. It is our international weakness that tempera-
mentally as a people, we do not realize that other nations lack our
complacent, benevolent altruism, and are ready to impose upon us
rather than to reciprocate our cooperative spirit. Their behavior
toward us is correct only when it must be so.
To understand our temperamental misconception of foreign
feeling toward us, we must recollect that the original settlers,
coming here to an unoccupied country, were, in large measure, cut
off from the traditions and social outlook of crowded Europe,
with its jealousies of neighbors and of racial and competing eco-
nomic groups. Owing to our abundance of land, the life struggle


  p. 1848 (#792)                      #

1848
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
here has been to subdue more unoccupied land; whereas, in Europe,
where land is scarcer, men could obtain that ease and comfort
which goes with land, chiefly by dispossessing some present owner.
Europeans fought their neighbors; we fought the wilderness in
alliance with our neighbors, and so developed a rule and an ex-
pectation of mutual helpfulness. Today, this country has been
brought into economic neighborhood with the rest of the world,
without our realizing that what we call a neighborly spirit (i.e., a
willingness to cooperate without reward) does not exist in inter-
national affairs. That exemption from bitter economic struggle
with our fellow citizens, which has made us the richest nation, has
also made us credulous and unduly trustful of the professed good
will of other peoples who do not reciprocate our friendly dispo-
sition.
Generosity and altruism have become with us a national trait,
but we are wrong to look for it in other nations. Existence for
them has been too strenuous for its development. Our recent
great development of manufacturing power has thrown us into the
midst of the world struggle of economic rivalry, where we ask
little but the right to trade freely and prosper by the exchange
of our industrial products. But, owing to our previous isolation
in world policies, we are without an inherited national foreign
policy for our guidance, such as other nations have. We seem
about to pay a high price for instructive experience. Every man
in this democracy of ours ought to be acquainted with the gen-
eral foreign policy which his government is putting forward; but,
unfortunately for that, most people are absorbed in the manage-
ment of their personal affairs. Nevertheless, they will not trust
foreign matters to the members of the government whose duty it
is to represent the people in external relations. The government
should not yield as readily as it sometimes does to the uninformed
clamor of noisy minorities who feel no responsibility for the views
they urge, and will go unblamed if their counsel, being followed,
brings disaster.
Let us take a moment to consider on what our high prosperity
must rest in the future. We have a continent with highly varied
products of the soil and of the mine, so that we need little from
abroad. Our ancestors were almost entirely self-sustaining, but
we are less so. We have developed machine industries to a high


  p. 1849 (#793)                      #

1925]
1849
Military Preparedness
degree and consume about 90 per cent of our products among
ourselves and export the rest in exchange for foreign goods. A
considerable part of these exports bring us in return things which
are essential to our industrial life, but which are not found within
our territory. For example, two of these substances are manganese
for the steel works and nitrates for the miners and for the chemi-
cal industries which are the foundation of so many others. The
whole organization of our national business life and the conse-
quent prosperity of every class of our population rests upon free
traffic across the seas in peace and in war, whether we are neutral
or whether we are belligerent. With the most complex system of
trade and exchange, growing more complex every decade, this
country is perilously situated if it is unable fully to protect and
control the freedom of traffic on which its prosperity rests. It is
not enough to ward our shores from invasion nor for our Navy
to grant physical protection to our trade and commerce. Beyond
that, we must retain economic freedom to buy and sell as we
please. At the present time, cheap transportation brings all the
corners of the globe together and local industries depend on sup-
plies from half around the world. The master of transportation
controls the business of all his customers. We see that readily
enough in our personal affairs. ' Think what a tie-up in the New
York subway means to passengers. It may be the loss of half a
day. It is just so in international business. Hostile foreign eco-
nomic pressure on American commerce through shipping can
deeply injure our fragile, complicated system of industrial and
social life. At present, this country lacks proper control of her
foreign communications. England owns half the shipping of the
world, and by that ownership and her system of finance, she in-
fluences the industries of all countries. England is our good
friend and long may she remain so; but her interests are not
identical with ours and her government very properly works for
English interests and is not misled by any glittering ideas of inter-
national brotherhood. We find brotherhood in the joint pursuit
of gain, but it is often forgotten in the subsequent division of
profits. Europe, just now, is thinking much of sharing our profits,
and when, at last, we realize that, we shall not feel so brotherly.
England controls the commerce of the world, but is, above all, a
European power. Our interests in Europe are less than England's


  p. 1850 (#794)                      #

1850
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
and our economic necessities in the way of raw materials lie to the
south and west of us. To keep an unshakeable hold on our traffic
in those directions, independent of rival great manufacturing na-
tions, we need a great merchant fleet, owned and managed in this
country, so that, as a whole, our own people may control our in-
ternal and external transportation for the national benefit without
danger of interference from the opposing interests of foreign
powers. The men of the western part of our country do not yet
understand that their own livelihood and local industries are closely
connected with foreign trade, and, unfortunately, they regard
shipping as something to be left for rich corporations to play with.
It is a short-sighted view. A system of shipping under the national
flag is as much a public utility as a railway or a highway. An
American merchant fleet is necessary in time of peace to enhance
our economic prosperity and to preserve the high standards of
living of the great body of our people. Should war break out,
we being neutral, we should still need such a fleet, for belligerents
will pay high rates for war service and so draw off the world's
supply of ships leaving for the maintenance of the business of
this country only so many as we have provided for ourselves in
time of peace.
So far the effort has been to show that our national prosperity
is based on a growing measure of foreign trade whose control it is
essential for us to maintain. Now let us consider how best we may
make that control secure. It will not be done by trusting rivals
nor international groups. In times past, the great industrial and
transporting nations needed navies to confer security upon their
ocean transportation, and armies to secure and even to extend
their territorial peace.
Organized force has always been the instrument of order and
civilization. We must not let the frequent cases of violence and
of the abuse of force blind us to this great truth. We must re-
member that it is our army which has made and preserved us
a nation.
But we are more particularly occupied with the sea army, as
the French call the navy, rather than with the land army. In
general, their purposes are similar; that is, to provide a shield
behind which the life of the nation may be carried on, unmolested
by rival powers.


  p. 1851 (#795)                      #

1925)
1851
Military Preparedness
In all times, navies have been maintained by strong governments
primarily to secure the unhindered movements of trade. Of course,
the corollary of this proposition is that in war a navy also strives
to break up the commercial and military traffic of its enemy, as
that is one way of rendering him incapable of continuing the war ;
for the movement of men and goods forms the basis of war, just
as it forms the basis of peaceful productive industry and pros-
perity.
In the present stage of international relations, we cannot trust
ourselves unarmed against the competition of our commercial
rivals. Open hostilities are not always necessary to gain economic
advantage over this country. There is much business in inter-
national affairs. Our riches and our most complex industrial or-
ganization put us in economic danger from other nations, and we
should be prepared for war which is most likely to come to us in
resisting what we regard as an attempt to take unfair economic
advantage of this rich people. If we are evidently well prepared
for war, our rivals will be less likely to encroach upon our eco-
nomic freedom.
Last fall at Geneva it was sought to define aggressive war,
hoping thereby to forbid all war, but no satisfactory agreement
could be reached upon a formula. But, against this country, an
aggressive attack is most likely to take an economic form. All
the world is now crying out to us, “Give: Relinquish debts: Per-
mit immigration.” Our war, if it comes, will probably be our
defense against some such economic attack, to meet which the
whole industry of the people needs armed protection just as much
as a warehouse needs an armed watchman.
There are many among us who try to persuade their fellow
countrymen that it is best to secure ourselves against attack by
other means than armed force; but, unfortunately, it is not possi-
ble. Let us see what such persons offer us as a substitute for the
armed forces which now guard our economic welfare.
At the Women's Conference last January in Washington, it was
urged that love should be relied upon; that children should be
trained to non-resistance, and that such a national attitude on our
part would engender a forbearing generosity in our opponent. It
is a dangerous experiment. We do not see such a spirit prevailing
among individuals. How can we expect to find it among the


  p. 1852 (#796)                      #

1852
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
groups of men who make up states and act collectively for the
national benefit? Those are wrong who assert that men or nations
fight for sport, as they play ball. They fight for gain, or in de-
fense of interests, and to stop war we must deprive men of the
desire to gain either wealth or power.
Again, there are believers in internationalism, in a socialism of
nations. This creed has not justified itself as a means of main-
taining a high standard of living among individuals. A man
labors best when he works for himself, and so does a nation.
There is a very vocal class of people who assert that both peace
and security can be reached through treaties and agreements,
through a League of Nations and through a League Court. In
short, they think that international law can replace war, just as
municipal law is said to have done away with private violence;
but it is the policeman who has put an end to private violence—the
law always forbade it.
It is even affirmed that international law, unsupported by force
may act as a super-government, and that the unified public opinion
of all peoples may become the ultimate authority of the world.
It would be a dull and entirely unprogressive world if no one
were permitted to differ with his neighbor. What would our
pacifists have to fight? As there are now different public opinions
in different regions within this country, how can we attain world-
wide unity of thought? The church tried that with the Inquisition
and attained only a permanent schism. As for the binding force
of treaties, agreements which are fitting at one time are unsuited
to the next generation. We wear out treaties just as we wear out
clothes. No nation feeling strong enough to break it has ever
submitted to the terms of a treaty after its conditions have become
onerous.
In this country there is an unwarranted confidence in the bare
written word of the law. Men quite forget that law is no more
than a guide for the application of force. Unless force is at
hand, there is no governance. When our ancestors gave up the
personal exercise of force in support of their rights, they did not
renounce the use of force; they merely transferred its exercise
from their own hands to those of the state. Public opinion alone
can never become the ultimate authority to either private or inter-
national relations, for it is effective only when it is apparent that


  p. 1853 (#797)                      #

1925]
1853
Military Preparedness
the public is ready to support it by force. Pascal said that the
majority rules because it has more reason, but he was in error;
the majority rules because it has more force.
It is alleged that the constructive energies of society may be
expected to prevent future wars; that the intelligence of the mass
of individuals and the moral sense of the community may main-
tain peace. We shall readily admit that a community in which
all hold the same views cannot fall into a state of war, for no one
thinks war desirable in itself. War is only the expression of
irreconcilable divergence of opinion as to the international dis-
tribution of the good things of the world, and is an effort to
amend them. The present methods of settling international dis-
sensions by diplomacy and war cannot be replaced by a league of
nations and its permanent court, handing out decisions. If we
follow such a dream we shall fall. International law is not law
at all, although most lawyers talk as if it were. Law is a rule of
conduct enforced by a power so great that resistance is futile.
If favorable public opinion is lacking, the executive neglects to
enforce the law and individuals break it at pleasure.
As an operative basis for the so-called international law of war,
the belligerents take the practice of the last war, and noting changes
in economic and political conditions, they introduce such modifi-
cations of the previous custom as will put the enemy at the
greatest disadvantage without annoying important neutrals so
much as to drive them into war. When conducting a war, if a
government does not fear the power of neutrals, it could not yield
so far to idealism as to risk losing the war by adherence to a rule
that the neutral government neglects to make respected. Other
nations are more given to trespass than we realize. If such go to
war between themselves it will be nothing else than our own fight-
ing strength and readiness for war which will confer on our gov-
ernment the ability to remain neutral without serious loss to our
business prosperity. There is no greater menace to the peace of
the world than for this richest country to be unarmed and so
tempt the cupidity of the world.
As a distinguished historian says in substance, some of the
greatest victories of a navy are the battles it has never fought,
meaning that its evident strength has forbidden the opponent to
contemplate war. But, continuing as to the efficacy of the league,


  p. 1854 (#798)                      #

1854
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
it lacks the power of the purse to employ force to execute its
mandates; it is therefore no more than a convenient debating so-
ciety. The league promotes cooperation in small matters, but
without money to pay for an army of its own it cannot crush an
incipient conflict between great powers. Although the league began
as a political instrument, it now appears that it has an economic
aspect also, which enables its great manufacturing members to
profit from it. The products of the various nations differ very
much; none are wholly self-supporting and self-sustaining. All
need the manufactures of a few great powers whose machine in-
dustries and systems of transportation form the economic club
which drives the smaller nations into the league, and the average
voter is glad to have his country enter on account of the deceitful
bait of political equality within the league. One of the most im-
portant economic features of the league is its control of muni-
tions. Only a few manufacturing nations make the arms and sup-
plies necessary to wage successful war. Every small nation must
become an economic client of one of the manufacturing states in
order to be able to guard its political sovereignty in disputes with
neighbors. At present, the great manufacturing nations of the
league do not have full control of the smaller ones, because the
United States is outside the league and can deliver munitions
without reference to the league.
If our representatives go to Geneva and agree with the other
principal states as to the terms on which arms may be furnished
to the non-manufacturing nations, it will establish three or four
countries in a position to dominate the rest of the world. It might
thus happen that the United States might be driven to choose
between acquiescence in the policies of Europe toward non-Europe,
and a war to release some weak country from the enthrallment
of a munitions agreement. Any munitions treaty would go far to
convert the League of Nations into a league of manufacturing
nations, who, among themselves, would not necessarily be har-
monized in their interests, so that really important economic dif-
ferences would be solved as hitherto, either by submission of the
weaker power or by war. The League of Nations is not working
as its founders hoped, for it cannot secure uniformity of interest
and of purpose among sovereign states. Even the smallest of the
units of the league are important enough to have friends among


  p. 1855 (#799)                      #

1925]
1855
Military Preparedness
the greater powers and these latter the league cannot coerce. Un-
less there is unanimity among the great powers, the league cannot
constrain a recalcitrant member. Such unanimity has not yet been
forthcoming, except that toward us there is a certain unanimity
in feeling as a debtor usually does toward the holder of his over-
due mortgage. In the present state of the world there is too much
difference in industry and civilization between nation and nation
to permit the attainment of harmony by coercion jointly exercised
by the great powers.
It has been suggested that through the league arrangements
might be made for equality of trade opportunities, for tariff ac-
commodations, and for a general balance or handicapping of the
natural economic advantage of one nation over another.
But, this requires that some nations should yield their inherent
favorable position for the sake of helping others. Unhappily,
however, nations are not yet altruistic, but are wholly selfish, even
more so than persons. It is this great difference in the economic
situation between states which prevents the public opinion of the
world from being harmonized and standardized. Thus, the agree-
ments apparently reached by the league will frequently be no more
than plays to the gallery, because the responsible national govern-
ments will refuse to limit their freedom to promote the welfare
of their own peoples as seems best.
As for the last substitute for armed force, the Permanent Court
of Justice of the League, that also may prove a snare to us. The
legal methods of courts are founded on the assumption that law
is a rule of reason and on that assumption courts seek the truth
by impartial investigation and by logical methods and then an-
nounce the proper rule to apply. But, if the litigants and the
court permit emotions to appear, the legal methods of courts are
unsuitable and cannot give satisfactory solutions to matters in
dispute. Such situations arise when the interests of large bodies
of people are involved, for then their emotions are invariably
aroused, and legal methods should be abandoned for diplomacy.
Diplomacy is the long developed way of dealing with subjects that
excite national emotions. Legislatures and executives are the
political departments of governments fitted to deal with emotion-
stirring affairs, for of such is politics made up. Moreover, the
League Court has no established and recognized system of law to


  p. 1856 (#800)                      #

1856
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
apply. There is now a proposition to draft such a code, but it is
difficult to be as successful as with a code of municipal law. Na-
tional laws are rules made to apply to conditions which experience
has demonstrated as existing and as needing regulation. But, in
international relations we do not foresee the future and cannot
prepare today a code suitable for unforeseen conditions. Law and
court decisions are largely matters of precedent where vested in-
terests of all sorts enjoy preferential status. By its nature, a
court cannot be progressive—it must be conservative. Legisla-
tures, on the contrary, are the progressive element in government.
Thus, a court dealing with world affairs by strictly legal methods
will lack flexibility to meet new conditions as they arise, and so
an international court cannot be greatly serviceable unless it has
also the powers of a world legislature. Such authority no one is
proposing to entrust to any judiciary body. No doubt, the League
Court offers a satisfactory way of dealing with minor international
disputes, but it is in great measure superfluous, for already there
is the Hague Arbitral Court. Besides the intrinsic objection to
authorizing a court to deal by legal methods with political and
emotional subjects, there is another. We cannot foresee the line
of development of a court composed of men of many nationalities,
trained in different systems of law and influenced by all manner
of sub-conscious national and racial prejudices. As for this coun-
try's joining the League Court, I say again, the world is jealous
of our riches; we cannot afford to agree in advance to submit, we
know not what questions, either to the league or to the court. We
cannot trust the impartiality of either.
So we come back to the readiness of the Army and Navy to
guard the national prosperity and welfare as an indispensable
basis for their endurance. This is not a militaristic view, for
militarism arises from a discontented and envious national spirit.
Such a spirit our people do not have. We arm only for industrial
and territorial security, not for aggression.
It has been shown, it is hoped, that it is necessary for our people
to decide on a military policy for the national defense, not only in
war, but also that our national industrial life may be secured from
the threat of economic hostilities. It is repeated, our riches un-
defended challenge the cupidity of the world.
As for the Army, it will suffice to say that as an insurance
against war, it should be large enough to be a sufficient nucleus


  p. 1857 (#801)                      #

1925]
1857
Military Preparedness
for quickly developing the military strength of the nation should
it unfortunately become involved in war. The General Staff esti-
mates that at present the Regular Army is about half as big as it
should be to achieve this end.
As for the Navy, it is our first line of defense to give security
to the external policies of the United States in regard to commerce
and free intercourse with the rest of the world. At the close of
the late war the government appreciated this, and started a large
ship-building program, but we have since agreed by treaty to limit
its size and effectiveness. It is not generally understood how much
we yielded in that treaty to other less wealthy powers who wished
to reduce our strength that theirs might become relatively greater.
As it was the United States which called the conference, in
order to obtain an ostensible success, the United States had to
accept terms suggested by the other powers whose financial situa-
tion was more onerous than ours.
Certain great powers are now basing their future position in
the world on maritime strength, including therein both naval and
commercial feets. These countries are jealous of the growing
international and economic strength of the United States. There
is no way for this country to continue in industrial security ex-
cept to maintain all components of our Navy at the treaty ratio
already established for battleships. Further agreements will prob-
ably serve to ensnare us. We are new and not clever at inter-
national diplomacy.
Our prosperity rests on free world communications in peace
and war. We should not further limit our ability to protect those
communications and lines of ocean traffic. As the poet says: "To
be weak is miserable," and the world is more likely to be miserable
if this country chooses to be weak. As long as our present na-
tional spirit lasts, our strength will not be used to the hurt of other
· nations which do not attack us.


  p. 1858 (#802)                      #

THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS
BY MAJOR GENERAL JOHN A. LEJEUNE, U. S. M. C., MAJOR
GENERAL COMMANDANT, U. S. M. C.
THE TENTH day of November of this year will mark the
one hundred fiftieth anniversary of the birth of the United
States Marine Corps, since on November 10, 1775, the Con-
tinental Congress authorized the raising of two battalions of
marines for the defense of the colonies which were then preparing
to protect their rights, as they saw them, against the aggressions
of the mother country.
The men recruited for this force were to be familiar with the
life of the sea, but were to be trained as a military force, and it
was the intention to have them serve aboard the ships to be pro-
vided for the defense of the colonies. It is evident that the
founders of the Marine Corps had in mind the fine services pre-
viously rendered by the British marines, both afloat and ashore,
and that it was the intention to use the marines aboard the ships
in naval battles when on the high seas and as landing forces when
occasion might offer.
From that distant date down to the present day the United States
Marines have continued to serve as an integral part of the United
States Navy and in peace and war have proved their worth as the
military army of the Navy. In all of the wars in which the
United States have engaged the marines have played their part ac-
cording to their abilities and the occasions offered, and how well
this part has been played is amply testified to in the many reports
of the admirals who have commanded our squadrons and fleets
on the seven seas throughout the 150 years that have looked
down upon the organization and growth of our nation.
There is neither space nor inclination to give here even passing
note of the incidents that have contributed to the pages of history
due to the acts of the Marine Corps; but it appears to be proper
to state here the present-day mission of the corps which has been
derived from the experiences of a century and a half of service


  p. 1859 (#803)                      #


A Machine Gun CREW IN ACTION
Marine Corps Expeditionary Force, Fall Exercises, 1924


  p. 1860 (#804)                      #

1860
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
in the Navy and to call attention to what has been done in recent
times to fit the corps to meet in a creditable and efficient manner
the requirements of the mission assigned to it by the highest
authority in control of the military and naval destinies of the
nation.
The mission of the Marine Corps, briefly stated, is:
“To support the fleet, or any part thereof, in the accomplish-
ment of its mission.”
The principal mission of the Navy as a whole may be briefly
stated, in the language of the great Mahan:
"To gain command of the sea and hold it."
Having these two basic statements in view, it will be seen that the
support considered is of a nature such that it can best be accom-
plished by a compact military force of all arms, thoroughly trained
to carry out the specific military tasks involved in the duties which
may properly be assigned to the Marine Corps as an important part
of the Navy.
The duties referred to are enumerated in the U. S. Navy
Regulations as follows: (Article 552 (7).)
7. The following duties may be performed by the Marine Corps, when
so directed by the Secretary of the Navy:
a) To furnish organizations for duty afloat on board armed transports
for service either with fleets, squadrons, or divisions, or on detached service.
b) To garrison the different navy yards and naval stations, both within
and beyond the continental limits of the United States.
c) To furnish the first line of the mobile defenses of naval bases and
naval stations beyond the continental limits of the United States.
d) To man such naval defenses and aid in manning, if necessary, such
other defenses as may be erected for the defense of naval bases and naval
stations beyond the continental limits of the United States.
e) To furnish such garrisons and expeditionary forces for duties beyond
seas as may be necessary in time of peace.
In addition to the above specific duties, which may be classified
as expeditionary service, the Revised Statutes (Section 1616)
prescribe that:
Marines may be detached for service on board the armed vessels of the
United States, and the President may detach and appoint for service on
said vessels such of the officers of said corps as he may deem necessary.
In order that the military services of the Marine Corps may be
employed to the utmost, when occasion requires, the Revised


  p. 1861 (#805)                      #

1925]
1861
The U. S. Marine Corps
Statutes also provide that any portion of the corps may be de-
tached for service with the United States Army, by order of the
President, and the occasions have been frequent when this has been
done and the services of the marines could be temporarily spared
by the Navy.
Unless the forces of the Marine Corps are so organized and so
trained as to be able and competent to carry out the tasks which
may be assigned to it in furtherance of its mission, as above
enumerated, the fleet may be seriously handicapped in its opera-
tions or even prevented from accomplishing its mission in peace
and war.
The military tasks which may be assigned to the Marine Corps,
if they are to be executed so as to obtain the best and quickest
results, require:
a) Unity of Command.—By law naval officers cannot command
army forces or vice versa, but this restriction does not apply to
the Marine Corps, since the latter is an integral part of the naval
establishment.
b) Flexibility of Organization.—The Marine Corps has been
constantly practiced on the organization and training of the dif-
ferent type-task units required for the varying service demanded
by its mission, and to meet these requirements it is purposely not
organized into the rigid units necessarily employed by the army
forces.
c) Mobility by Sea.—Throughout its history the Marine Corps
has been constantly indoctrinated with the sea idea through service
of certain of its units on the active ships of the fleet, and through
expeditionary service at sea and overseas in naval transports, as
well as by keeping alive a traditional interest in all naval affairs
and by recruiting its commissioned personnel in part from grad-
uates of the Naval Academy.
d) Training in the Specific Duties Required.—The training of
the Marine Corps personnel to accomplish the various duties which
may be assigned to it has been accomplished in the past by assign-
ing a part of the officers and enlisted men to regular sea service in
the active ships of the fleet, by frequent expeditions overseas,
both in peace and war, for the settlement of questions arising from
an application of the Monroe Doctrine, for the establishment of
law and order in certain unstable countries requiring the protection


  p. 1862 (#806)                      #

1862
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
of the United States to insure their independence and prosperity
as nations, and for the training of the forces in such overseas
operations with the fleet as may be required in time of war.
The natural model for the organization of a strictly military
force would appear to be the United States Army, since all of its
duties are of a strictly military nature, and it is the service which
conducts land warfare on a large scale according to the require-
ments of the country's defense. However, the mission of the
Marine Corps requires of it a specific support of the seagoing
fleet in naval warfare, and the land operations of the corps in con-
nection with the operations of the feet are always incidental to
the sea operations of the fleet in its efforts to gain command of the
sea and hold it so that the Army may move in force across a
protected water route to attack an overseas land force of the
enemy and thus end a war with an overseas power.
For these reasons the Marine Corps must ever be closely asso-
ciated with the Navy, understanding the life at sea, the require-
ments and methods of naval warfare, and being imbued with the
esprit of the naval service; and it must be organized and trained to
meet the peculiar requirements of naval expeditionary duties with
the fleet.
The experience gained by the Navy during the Spanish-Ameri-
can War and a study of former wars caused the leaders of ad-
vanced thought on preparedness in the Navy to advocate the
organization and training of a force of marines as a naval advanced
base force, to be held in readiness for service as a part of the
fleet when it should be deemed advisable for the fleet to seize an
overseas base for distant operations. The duties for this force
would require a possible seizure of a suitable site for a naval
advanced base by landing operations against its enemy defenders,
and the subsequent erection of such temporary fortifications and
armament as would be required to make it a protected anchorage
for such ships of the fleet as might require re-fuelling, re-victual-
ling, or repairs, as well as for the numerous unarmed vessels of the
fleet train.
From 1902 to the present time numerous exercises have been
held at selected overseas locations to train the marines in the
execution of the details of the defense of such naval bases over-
seas, and from the experience gained, as well as from a study of


  p. 1863 (#807)                      #

1925]
1863
The U. S. Marine Corps
certain operations during the World War, the present marine corps
expeditionary forces have been evolved. As a result, there are at
present two organized marine corps expeditionary forces, the
larger one being based at the Marine Barracks, Quantico, Virginia,
and the second, or smaller one, being based at the Marine Corps
Base, San Diego, California,
These marine corps expeditionary forces, while primarily in-
tended to be organized and trained for service with the fleet in
war, are available for any military duty that may be required of
the Marine Corps at home or abroad. Expeditionary forces for
the peace-time requirements arising at home or abroad may vary
in size from a single company to the whole available strength of
the marine corps expeditionary force, and the training of the force
must be such as to best fit the whole or any part of it to meet such
requirements.
The peace-time expeditions usually partake of the nature of com-
bined operations afloat and ashore, the naval ships furnishing the
floating force and the marines furnishing the landing force, and
from their very nature they require the unity of command, flex-
ibility of organization, and mobility by sea which must be in-
herent in the Marine Corps as a part of the Navy if the corps is
fully to accomplish its assigned mission.
When the whole marine corps expeditionary force is operating
with the assembled fleet the duties required will be in the nature
of war-time operations in the face of the enemy; but when con-
ducting minor operations in which a portion of the marine corps
expeditionary force operates in conjunction with a detachment of
the fleet the operations will partake more of the nature of peace-
time operations. Such peace-time operations may prove to be the
preparatory stages of war on a large scale, or if they are success-
fully carried out they may serve to prevent such a war.
Considering only the requirements of the Marine Corps to
furnish such expeditions as may be required during peace and to
furnish the larger force necessary to seize and defend a naval ad-
vanced base in time of war, the training of the marine corps ex-
peditionary force might be carried on without reference to the
rest of the Marine Corps; but the other duties assigned to the
corps must be provided for and at the same time the personnel
assigned to these other duties must be so trained that it will


  p. 1864 (#808)                      #

1864
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
always be prepared for amalgamation with the expeditionary
forces when the imminence of war indicates the necessity for
operations on a major scale of effort.
Hence, by frequent interchange of the personnel of the corps
between the various classes of duty both ashore and afloat the
whole personnel is trained for the major effort and inculcated
with that indoctrination which is a prerequisite to the successful
fulfilment of the war-time mission of the corps.
The peace-time strength of the Marine Corps, like that of other
branches of the naval establishment, is not sufficient to meet the
requirements of war, and this fact necessitates the training of the
available force with a view to its rapid expansion to a much
greater strength when war looms upon the horizon; for the Navy
in all of its elements should be ready to take the sea in force on
the day ordered by the President and every day's delay after that
date gives the enemy more time for preparation to meet the at-
tack, diminishes the chances of the important element of surprise,
and prolongs the period and expense of the war. The training and
organization of the marine corps expeditionary forces is conducted
with a view of having all of the available force trained so that
the addition of reserves, volunteers, and newly enlisted men may be
added to the force with the least chance of confusion and the
best amalgamation of the entire body into a compact force in the
shortest possible time.
The training required to fit the marine corps expeditionary
forces in all arms and branches for the field service that may be
required of it in peace and war embraces every step from the
simple school of the soldier to actual maneuvers in unknown ter-
ritory overseas in company with the fleet under simulated war
conditions. This training may be divided into four phases: viz.,
a) Barracks Training, embracing all indoor and parade ground
drills and exercises and the necessary schools of instruction for
officers and enlisted men. For infantry this includes the theory
of musketry and the technique of primary and auxiliary weapons.
For artillery it includes the theory of fire and the technique of
all types of guns employed by the force. For the special troops,
signal troops, engineers and pioneers, and supply units, it includes
the technique of all mechanical material manned by such troops
and thorough preliminary practice in the use of such equipment.


  p. 1865 (#809)                      #

1925]
1865
The U. S. Marine Corps
witzers.
b) Target Range Training, embracing the prescribed courses in
target firing to qualify all individuals as good target shots with
the rifle; the training of automatic riflemen in direct fire at known
distances; the training of all infantrymen in musketry problems;
the training of machine gunners in direct and indirect fire on the
1,000-inch range and at longer ranges; the training of light
(Stokes) mortar gunners at indirect fire at known ranges; the
training of light howitzer gunners at direct and indirect range
firing; the training of grenadiers at firing rifle and hand grenades;
the training of squads, platoons, and companies in firing in normal
attack advances under stipulated conditions as to simulated ter-
rain; and combined attack exercises over the range employing
the infantry companies of a battalion supported by all auxiliary
weapons, automatic rifles, grenades, light mortars, machine guns,
and light howitzers.
For artillery troops this phase includes training in the service
of the guns, laying the guns, determination of ranges by all adopted
range-finding methods, and firing over known ranges under sim-
ulated terrain conditions from direct and indirect fire.
c) Barracks Field Training, embracing exercises over diversi-
fied terrain in situations requiring tactical decisions; marching over
roads adjacent to the barracks and through the surrounding coun-
try; advance and rear guard instruction and practice; exercises
and problems in security on the march and at halts; pitching and
striking camps, with attendant instruction in field cooking and
sanitation; combat exercises and problems, offensive and defensive,
with firing of all arms, infantry, and artillery; exercises in scout-
ing, patrolling, and military sketch mapping.
d) Maneuvers and Exercises, embracing the training of all arms
and branches in marching over unknown terrain under service con-
ditions; advance and rear guard and camp security problems;
scouting and patrolling, employing both land and air forces;
combat problems employing all arms of force under simulated
battle conditions, including the firing of the weapons of all arms;
advancing through and occupying cities and towns; problems in
occupying and holding and supplying isolated positions; night
maneuvering of all arms under varying conditions of terrain and
weather; embarking and disembarking the personnel and material
for overseas service, with proper loading and storing of equipment


  p. 1866 (#810)                      #

1866
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
and supplies with a view to its order of disembarkation under
simulated war conditions, the disembarkation being effected with
ships, boats and barges that can be transported on the transports
and freighters; landing operations on a coast assumed to be oc-
cupied and defended by an enemy; defense of an island position or
section of the coast against a hostile landing force supported by
such vessels of the feet as would normally be assigned to such
duty with an advanced base force; laying out and constructing
semi-permanent and temporary entrenchments and defenses such
as would be utilized in the defense of a naval advanced base; camp
sanitation and personal sanitation and hygiene on the march, on
board transports at sea, and in camp; first aid treatment in the
field under battle conditions; establishment and conduct of field
hospitals and dressing stations; care and preparation of rations
and food on the march and in camp; problems of supply on the
march and in camp, including the supply of overseas forces away
from established bases; the problem of the supply of widely scat-
tered detachments, employing all classes of available transporta-
tion, steamer, railroad, motor transport, pack animals, carriers,
boats, and aircraft; problems of communication by radio, field
telegraph and telephone, visual day and night signals, and runners;
aircraft scouting and patrolling and observation; anti-aircraft
detection and defense; target practice under simulated war con-
ditions with all classes and types of guns assigned to the artillery
units of an advanced base defense against targets simulating
those that would be presented in actual warfare of the nature
contemplated; use of gas in attack and defense, and protection
against gas attack by an enemy; planting and operating mine
fields at harbor entrances and in narrow and restricted waterways;
construction and protection of obstructions and barriers at beaches
and probable enemy landing points; operation of range finding
devices and communication systems for the artillery and other de-
fenses of a base or position seized and held on an enemy coast;
and combined problems in defense and attack coordinating all of
arms and branches of the force.
The above outline shows the wide variety of drills and exercises
demanded by the nature of the duties assigned to the Marine
Corps as the distinctly military supporting and landing force of
the Navy, and is given here in detail to demonstrate the necessity


  p. 1867 (#811)                      #

1925]
1867
The U. S. Marine Corps
for a more complete and thorough coordination and cooperation
between the fleet and the marine corps expeditionary forces, a
coordination that can only be effected, if we are to secure the
desired results, by frequent exercises of these forces on overseas
maneuvers with the fleet. In order that such cooperation in plans
and training and actual operations may secure the desired results it
is necessary that every marine from the general to the private
must feel that he is of the Navy and in the Navy, and likewise
that everyone in the Navy from the four star admiral to the man
before the mast must feel that the marine is a part of the person-
nel of the fleet with a definite and clear-cut line of duties to per-
form in the general scheme of naval operations in peace and war.
Properly to train and indoctrinate the marines for the expedi-
tionary duties required of them under their mission a plan of ex-
ercises has been developed which contemplates two maneuvers or
exercises of the marine corps expeditionary force away from its
permanent base in home territory during each year. One of these
exercises, designated to train the force in land operations, con-
sists in field exercises over suitable territory within marching
distance of the base; and the other annual exercise consists in
embarking the force in transports and taking it with the seagoing
fleet for the annual grand maneuvers of the fleet overseas. The
first of these exercises, as enumerated, is for the purpose of
familiarizing the personnel of the force with the conditions and
demands of land service in preparation for the landing operations
that will form a part of the actual war-time duties of the force in
support of an overseas naval expedition. The second exercise, and
the most important one, is for the purpose of preparing the force
to join the fleet when required and perform its part in the general
plan of an overseas. naval campaign on the scale that would be
required in major naval operations.
Previous to the World War the naval advanced base force, con-
sisting of marine infantry, artillery, and special units, was fre-
quently exercised with the fleet in maneuvers and exercises in West
Indian waters and in the Philippines, but for the three years fol-
lowing the close of that war it was not practicable to have such
overseas exercises of the marines with the fleet. However, the
strictly land exercises were carried out by the force to keep it
trained in readiness for any service that it might be called upon
to perform.


  p. 1868 (#812)                      #

1868
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
In the fall of 1921, the marine corps expeditionary force, based
at Quantico, Virginia, marched from its base to the Wilderness
territory, west of Fredricksburg and south of the Rapidan River,
and there conducted military exercises on the famous battle fields
of the Civil War, including a reproduction of certain phases of the
Battle of the Wilderness.
In June, 1922, the force marched from Quantico to Gettysburg,
Pennsylvania, conducting field training along the route and on that
famous battle field, including the reproduction of Pickett's charge,
the most noted incident of that decisive conflict of the Civil War,
demonstrating the manner in which the charge was carried out in
the original battle, followed by a demonstration of the manner in
which such an attack would be conducted under modern war-time
conditions.
In the fall of 1923, the force marched from Quantico across
Virginia to the upper Shenandoah Valley and encamped for two
weeks at Fort Defiance, where field exercises were carried out to
demonstrate the manner of occupying and holding a section of
foreign territory for the protection of the inhabitants thereof in
case of loyal revolution and disorder. The exercises concluded
with a reproduction of the Battle of Newmarket, in which pageant
the cadets of the Virginia Military Institute enacted the rôle of
their predecessors in the original battle.
In these reproductions of former battles an opportunity was
presented for the personnel of the force to witness a graphic ex-
emplification of the war-time methods of the past and thus gain
valuable historical military lessons.
In the winter of 1923-24, the force joined the United States
Fleet and participated in the winter maneuvers of the fleet in West
Indian waters. For these exercises the available marine personnel
was divided into two forces, one charged with the seizure and de-
fense of the Island of Culebra as a naval advanced base, and the
other accompanying the fleet for duty as a landing force against
the army defenses of the Panama Canal Zone and later as a
landing force for the assault of the defenses at Culebra.
In the fall of 1924, the force marched from its base at Quantico
through Washington, D. C., and Frederick, Maryland, to the bat-
tle field of Antietam, where it encamped for two weeks and con-
ducted field training over the surrounding country in a series of


  p. 1869 (#813)                      #

1925]
1869
The U. S. Marine Corps
problems demonstrating problems of attack and defense under
modern war conditions. These exercises terminated in a demon-
stration of a modern battle advance and attack employing all arms
of the force, infantry, artillery, signal troops, engineers and
pioneers, supply troops, tanks, motor transport, and squadrons
of airplanes.
In the spring of 1925, marines from the expeditionary forces
stationed at Quantico and San Diego were organized into a force
representing a war-time organization of two divisions of all arms,
aggregating 42,000 in strength, which joined the United States
Fleet at San Francisco for participation in the grand army and
navy joint exercises in Hawaiian waters. This force was dis-
tributed among sixteen ships of the fleet train representing trans-
ports and proceeded with the fleet across the Pacific to Hawaiian
waters, where it was employed in making a landing attack for the
capture of the army defenses of the Island of Oahu and the naval
base at Pearl Harbor, supported by the entire fleet.
The general staff work in preparation for these exercises was
carried out insofar as possible exactly as would be the case in a
war of major effort and the experience gained will prove of great
value in future plans and training of the force.
The landing operations were carried out in exact accordance
with the predetermined plans and the results fully demonstrated
the value of the previous drills and training of the force as well
as the necessity for more complete training in the future. The
lessons learned will be of great value to the Marine Corps and
the Navy, in general staff work, in organization and training of
the force for its major mission, and in cooperation with the other
important elements of the United States Fleet. It is hoped that
all plans for future naval exercises and maneuvers will include
the participation of a marine expeditionary force, for in no other
way can this force be prepared for the final test of naval warfare
of major magnitude.
While the marine corps expeditionary forces were being trained
and exercised to fit them for the execution of their major mission
the other duties of the Marine Corps were being carried cut at
the various naval stations and scenes of naval activity throughout
the world. In the fleet the marine detachments have served as a
part of the ships' crews, thus enabling a portion of the corps to


  p. 1870 (#814)                      #

1870
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
gain an intimate acquaintance with the Navy and its personnel and
to become thoroughly imbued with the life and language and cus-
toms of the sea. These officers and men so trained in the fleet
will, in turn, be replaced by others and in this way the whole corps
will gain in naval experience and come to the realization that
the marine in blue or khaki is in every way a brother in arms of the
sailor in blue and white.
At every navy yard and station of the country marines have
served to guard naval property and do their part in the general
work of preparing the Navy for active service at sea, and here
again an intimate cooperation with the naval officer and the
sailor helps to indoctrinate the marine in naval ideas and customs.
The unsettled conditions in China during the past year have
required the despatch of reenforcements to the marines serving
on the Asiatic Station, and these forces have been used when and
where required by the commander-in-chief of the naval forces on
that station for the protection of American citizens and interests
on the China coast and to help the Chinese authorities in the sup-
pression of riotous attacks upon foreigners and their property.
In Haiti, where we have treaty obligations to assist the local gov-
ernment in the reestablishment of a government that can peacefully
and capably conduct the affairs of that country, a brigade of marines
has been held in readiness for such duty as may be required of it,
and the authorities who have visited Haiti report that the condi-
tions of peace and order there promise much for the future of the
country and demonstrate the patience and efficiency with which the
marines stationed there have carried out their duties.
The marines stand ready today to carry out their mission as an
important part of the Navy and will continue to do all in their
power to "support the fleet, or any part thereof, in the accomplish-
ment of its mission.".


  p. 1871 (#815)                      #

SOME AVIATION FUNDAMENTALS
By REAR ADMIRAL William A. MOFFETT, U. S. Navy, CHIEF OF
BUREAU OF AERONAUTICS
INCE the organization of the Bureau of Aeronautics, the
> Navy has bent every effort to get naval aviation in readiness
to go to sea with the fleet. It will be remembered that at
the close of the World War the activities of naval aviation were
confined primarily to coastal patrol. The task of developing air-
craft, training pilots, and of making aviation a useful component
of the fleet has been a difficult one. The exercises in the Pacific
this year constitute our first modicum of success in this endeavor.
During the joint maneuvers, twenty-six seaplanes from the air-
craft squadron's scouting fleet were operated as a part of the
defense forces. Battle fleet airplanes to the number of eighty-four
were operated from ships of the attacking forces. Of these sixty
were flown from battleships and light cruisers while twenty-four
were flown from the Langley. A total of 110 aircraft from the
United States fleet were thus engaged in the exercises and ac-
quited themselves well. In addition to these fleet units, fourteen
seaplanes from the Naval Air Station at Honolulu assisted in
the defense making a total of 124 naval aircraft engaged in the
exercises. Naval aviation is truly an integral part of the fleet.
The problems of naval aviation are not ordinarily appreciated.
From an engineering viewpoint the mechanical problems of air-
craft development are the most complex encountered in any engi-
neering line. Considerations of weight are the fundamental
difficulties. These are inherent in all aircraft construction but are
particularly so in the development of naval aircraft. Every man-
of-war is a compromise in which the utmost in armament, pro-
tection, and motive power have been concentrated into a small
space. When we attempt to add aircraft to the complexities of
ship board installation we find the restrictions of weight and
space, which are already great, multiplied many fold. This is one
of the problems on which we have concentrated and in which we are
obtaining a measure of success.


  p. 1872 (#816)                      #


U.S.NAVY-2
Bureau Aeronautics Photo
Navy Boeing PATROL SEAPLANE, PB-I, ONE OF THE THREE NAVY PLANES PREPARED FOR THE
SAN FRANCISCO-HONOLULU FLIGHT


  p. 1873 (#817)                      #

1925)
1873
Some Aviation Fundamentals
The difficulties which aviation personnel encounter are also
great. The crew of an aircraft is extremely small considering the
number of things that have to be done. Consider for a moment
the task of the crew of a two-seater observation plane on a spotting
mission. It requires skill and a high degree of training simply
to fly the aircraft. The observer must be maintained in a favorable
spotting position. . The spotter must observe accurately, make
his decisions instantly, and transmit his information back to his
ship immediately. He must do this while in a cramped position
at high altitude. This problem, difficult enough in peace time is
enhanced in war time by the fact that the spotting airplane will
probably be subject to attack from enemy aircraft. Flying air-
craft is difficult enough, carrying out the mission is a problem which
calls for an increased measure of skill, judgment and endurance.
The Navy's problem with regard to aviation has been made
more difficult by the controversy which has arisen as to its place
in national defense. The Bureau of Aeronautics has had to exert
much of its energies in controverting fallacious arguments which
I believe unsound when viewed from the broad angle of national
defense.
Two important factors have, to my mind, been misconstrued in
their application to the problem. The round-the-world flight, for
instance, has been pointed out as a conclusive demonstration that
we can place our major dependence upon aircraft. The bombing
experiments on vessels off the Virginia Capes have been construed
as marking the passing of surface craft. When viewed properly
these two events really demonstrate conclusively the utter and
absolute interdependence of aircraft and surface craft. As stated
by the President, naval requirements are for a balanced fleet on the
surface, under the surface and in the air. The important thing
to remember is that the surface is a reference plane to which all
activities must return and that anything which tends to separate
these activities is destructive of the result desired. In other
words, the solution lies not in separation of these activities with
a view to advancing development of one or the other, but in their
more complete unification.
Some aviation enthusiasts are intolerant of what they consider
to be delays in the development of aircraft and ascribe these
delays to the system of organization. These delays are properly


  p. 1874 (#818)                      #

1874
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
due to the difficulties encountered. In considering any problem
of this kind it must be remembered that it is administration and
not organization that tells. Organization is merely a plan of ad-
ministration. Any reasonable plan properly executed will suc-
ceed. The best plan improperly administered will fail. By simply
changing the organization we get nowhere. In the last analysis the
same people will have to do the work. No change in organization
is likely to improve their ability. They have every opportunity
to achieve the necessary development under the present system.
In viewing the importance of aviation it is necessary to look
at it from the broad general angle of national defense. There are
three major aspects, the strategical, the tactical, and the economic.
We have at present two major arms, the Army and the Navy.
Their activities are distinct and separate and there is no overlap-
ping except at the coast line. It is argued that the air introduces
another medium but it must be remembered that the ultimate ob-
jective is to occupy territory. It is the mission of the Army to
occupy land. To this end the Navy is an auxiliary to the Army
and aviation is an auxiliary to both. Any consideration of the
future of aviation must take this into consideration.
The essential requirement for success is unity of effort. Unity
in a single organization is comparatively simple. The unification
of two separate organizations is not just twice as hard as unifica-
tion of one; it is at least four times as hard. Unification and co-
ordination of three organizations is more nearly nine times as hard
as the unification of one organization. The establishment of a
separate air force on a parity with the Army and Navy would
bring upon the coordinating agency an almost superhuman task.
Even when the aircraft have developed sufficient offensive power
to overshadow all other arms, they will be most effective in co-
operation with other arms, and not by independent action.
It is fundamental that in any task the commander must have
authority commensurate with his responsibility. The commander-
in-chief of the fleet at sea carrying out the Navy's mission must
have complete authority over all the forces engaged in that mis-
sion. The military commander-in-chief, ashore, on the same task
must have the same authority. Insofar as aviation is concerned
and insofar as other arms are concerned this can best be accom-
plished by giving the department concerned authority over person-
nel, material, and operations.


  p. 1875 (#819)                      #


Bureau Aeronautics Photo
FORMATION OF NAVY FIGHTING PLANES, TYPE TS-1, IN Flight NEAR SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA


  p. 1876 (#820)                      #

1876
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The only useful employment of a separate air force would be in
repelling a sudden air attack before the military and naval forces
can be brought into action. This is a real danger where the
enemy air force is within reasonable flying distance of one's own
boundaries. Our isolation protects us from such possibilities and
will protect us for a long time to come. It is, therefore, unsound
to contemplate the establishment of a separate air force which will
only complicate the whole national defense system and will do
nothing which cannot be done by army and navy units.
Proponents of the separate air force urge that aviation will
never be properly developed until it has a separate organization
and is unhampered by other organizations. Aviation is an im-
portant branch of national defense and in their minds on a parity
with the military and naval establishments. The logical conclusion
to their minds is that a separate air force should be immediately
established. This is purely an aviation viewpoint and not a na-
tional defense viewpoint. The danger is that in endeavoring to de-
velop aviation more rapidly these enthusiasts may so complicate the
whole problem of national'detense as to jeopardize national safety.
I do not concede for a moment that the establishment of a sep-
arate air force would bring about more rapid development of
aviation. In any project of this kind development up to a certain
point is rapid. Improvement beyond that point is necessarily slow.
The problems of aeronautical engineering are so complex that
progress seems unduly slow. We are criticized for not having
large numbers of improved aircraft in service. It must be remem-
bered that aviation is in a development stage. It takes time,
approximately three years, to develop a new type of airplane to
the point where it is more satisfactory for service operating con-
ditions than is the previous type. Had we purchased large quan-
tities of airplanes we should have been attacked by the same
critics for having produced a large number of aircraft which would
have been obsolescent before their completion. In peace time it
is our task to carry on development as rapidly as possible, main-
taining on hand enough serviceable aircraft to meet peace-time
requirements and at the same time to have our designs, plans,
specifications, and industrial organization so arranged that large
quantities of aircraft can be produced in an emergency.


  p. 1877 (#821)                      #

1925]
1877
Some Aviation Fundamentals
It is important here to appreciate the policy of this country
insofar as national defense is concerned. The Navy must at all
times be retained at a high percentage of its war strength in readi-
ness for immediate action. The Army is maintained at a very low
percentage of its war-time strength and ready to a lesser degree.
It is contemplated, then, that behind the strong arm of the fleet we
can mobilize our reserves in time to prevent seizure of our ter-
ritory. This policy makes the task of naval aviation more difficult
than that of military aviation because naval aviation must be in
the same state of readiness as is the fleet.
It is the Navy's mission to protect our coasts, our sea-borne
commerce, and far-flung possessions. Once war is forced upon us
we must take the offensive to win it. The Navy is the first line
of offense and naval aviation as an advance guard of this first
line must deliver the brunt of attack. Naval aviation cannot take
the offensive from shore; it must go to sea on the back of the
fleet. I do not believe aircraft on shore can ward off a bombing
attack launched, perhaps, from carriers by night from an unknown
point for an unknown objective. On the other uand, a fleet with
adequate aviation of its own can drive the carriers back out of
effective range. Both for offense and defense the fleet and naval
aviation are one and inseparable.
The very isolation that gives us defensive strength gives us of-
fensive weakness and complicates the Navy problems. No one
appreciates this fact like those who fly over the sea. There could
be no finer illustration of the difficulties of naval aviation than
the round-the-world cruise. The outstanding feature of this
flight was the triumph of individual courage and far-sighted prep-
aration over the inherent limitations of aircraft as vehicles over the
sea. The unmistakable lesson of this flight is the utter and ab-
solute dependence of aircraft over the sea upon surface craft.
These are some of the strategic aspects of the problem. The
consideration of the economic aspects brings about the same con-
clusion. It has been argued that aviation is a cheap means of de-
fense. In support of the argument we have heard the costs of
individual aircraft contrasted with the cost of surface craft. Such
arguments fail to take into consideration the fact that the ex-
pensive part of aviation is the ground organization. A good
example is the cost of the carriers necessary to take aviation to


  p. 1878 (#822)                      #

1878
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
sea with the fleet. Those of us who have had to engage in the
development of aviation have been impressed with its costliness.
Proponents of the unified air force point to the expenditures that
have been made for aviation and use them as an argument for an
independent air force. These expenditures have been made with the
greatest care and I do not believe for a moment that they could have
been decreased by any other organization. On the contrary, they
would most certainly have been increased by a separate air force.
Our requests for appropriations must first be scrutinized by the
budget officer of the Navy Department and must stand on their
merits. They must then survive the scrutiny of the Director of the
Budget who will most certainly detect any extravagance. Follow-
ing this, they must survive the thorough investigation by the ap-
propriation committees of the House and Senate and of debate
on the floors of Congress. In substantiating our requests for these
appropriations we must account for the expenditures of the pre-
vious year. It is obvious that waste and extravagance cannot
exist under the circumstances. The funds expended in aircraft
development are, then, not an indication of incompetence, but a
real measure of the cost of aviation.
In bringing about aviation development we have had at our com-
mand the assistance of other branches of the Navy Department.
If now we establish a separate department on a parity with the
Army and Navy we shall have to duplicate many of these branches
of both the Army and the Navy which have contributed to aviation
development. A separate air department will have to have its
own service of supply, its own medical department, its own train-
ing centers, its own vast establishments. The cost of maintaining
such an establishment would force the present expenditures into
insignificance. Not only would the organization of a separate air
force fail to reduce the costs of aviation but it would increase
these costs enormously.
The Army and Navy have been accused of unnecessary duplica-
tion in aviation activities. This accusation is unfounded. A
certain amount of duplication is necessary in order that the factor
of competition may advance the development of the art. This
small duplication we have encouraged but any unnecessary dupli-
cation has been definitely eliminated through cooperation of the
Army Air Service and the Bureau of Aeronautics, as brought about


  p. 1879 (#823)                      #


IF 6
.
IFS
Bureau Aeronautics Photo
FORMATION OF Navy Fighting Planes, TYPE TS-1, OF THE AIRCRAFT SQUADRONS OF THE BATTLE FLEET,
OVER THE West Coast, NEAR SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA


  p. 1880 (#824)                      #

1880
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
by the joint aeronautical board and the "Joint Board.” Those
who accuse us of duplication at the present time in matters aero-
nautic are advocating the worst kind of duplication in the matter
of national defense. The establishment of the organizations of the
Army and the Navy and the air force on an equality would really
be triplication. From an economic viewpoint the establishment of
a separate air force is absolutely unsound.
Turning now to the tactical considerations we must always re-
member that success is had only through absolute. unity. This
unity cannot be produced by issuing orders. It must come about
as a result of continued association, cooperation and indoctrina-
tion. It is not necessary to enlarge upon this subject at this time; it
is so axiomatic that no discussion is required. I need only point out
some of the aspects of the fleet engagement to emphasize the point.
In any fleet action it will be the endeavor of the commander-in-
chief to bring all of his forces to bear simultaneously at the right
time and in the right place. It is simple enough to order such a
concentration but it is a different matter to bring it about with
units scattered over the surface of the sea out of range of effective
communication or when effective communication is impossible
because of the action. It is perfectly obvious, however, that the
commander-in-chief who can at the proper moment launch an at-
tack with torpedoes from submarines and destroyers, shells from
guns of his capital ships, and torpedoes and bombs from his air-
craft will have brought about that concentration which is essential
to success. For this purpose he will need in the air naval officers
who have spent their lives in the Navy, grown up with it, trained
with it and are prepared to exercise the initiative which can only be
had from complete knowledge of the purpose of the commander-in-
chief and thorough indoctrination with his methods of procedure.
In the employment of naval aviation with the fleet there are
numerous problems yet to be solved. The same thing is true of
the employment of other arms but these are older and the prob-
lems are nearer solution. In working out our problems we must
realize that they can be solved only by hard work and that a
change of method does not bring the solution. These problems
call for sympathetic understanding on the part of all concerned.
There will be minor difficulties here and there but if we adhere
to our purpose and drive along, success is assured. These diffi-


  p. 1881 (#825)                      #

1925]
1881
Some Aviation Fundamentals
culties are being worked out. To people in the field they may seem
slow of solution but this is true because from the broader view-
point of national defense they are more complex than from the
narrow viewpoint of local application. Success will come more
quickly if we forget the minor worries and concentrate upon the
problems at hand with a loyal devotion to fundamental principles.
To summarize, I consider the whole idea of a separate air force
to be unsound, strategically, tactically, and economically. I be-
lieve that, far from being behind in the development of aviation,
the Navy is well in front. Far from feeling that we have failed
we should be cheered in the knowledge that naval aviation is now
going to sea with the fleet; that it has become an essential part
of the fleet and that in spite of the handicaps under which it has
had to develop it has gone ahead by leaps and bounds and has de-
veloped far more rapidly than other arms which ante-date it in
point of time.
In addition to giving the impression that we are behind in avia-
tion development certain ardent proponents of the separate air
force have given the impression that we have met with opposition
within the Navy itself. This is far from being correct. If there
has been any handicap whatever in our work it has been due to
over-enthusiastic and absurd claims on the part of certain indi-
viduals outside the Navy. Far from helping in the big problem
these claims have only hindered. Without the cordial support
and cooperation of the Navy Department, the commander-in-chief
and the commanders of the squadrons and units afloat, naval avia-
tion could never have arrived where it is today.
Unity of purpose, unity of effort, and unity of command have
advanced naval aviation to a point where a separate air force
could never have put it. I believe some foreign powers have made
a mistake in adopting the separate air force; step by step one of
the leading naval powers is walking back to our system. These
mistakes have placed us in advance in the art. A vital mistake
in organization at this time would so complicate the administration
as to place us back where other leading naval powers were at the
close of the World War. Our real task now is to forget about
organization and concentrate on administration with a view to re-
fining and developing until we have a truly balanced fleet, on the
sea, under the sea, and over the sea.


  p. 1882 (#826)                      #

THE WISE MAN KNOWS HIS TOOLS
By REAR ADMIRAL J. K. ROBISON, U. S. Navy
ENGINEER-IN-CHIEF OF THE NAVY
W I TH all due regard to the present possible misinterpreta-
tion of the word, the Navy is a product of evolution. The
whys and wherefores of the necessity for navies need not
be examined. It is sufficient that at the present, all nations find
them necessary, hence their existence. They form the external
police force of the country. Ready at all times to safeguard life
and property, they are also ready in time of conflict, whether it
be internal or external. Perhaps the day will come when there
will be no need of traffic officers, patrolmen, state militia, or
constabulary, nor, conceivably, of customs officials. When civiliza-
tion has advanced to the stage that no one has any malice, envy,
or hatred for another, then perhaps, navies and armies can be dis-
pensed with. But, until that time shall arise, and it is no less
desired by those in military or naval service than others, the
reliance placed upon the Navy as the outpost of the nation's de-
fense must be made secure.
Primarily, a conflict between peoples and nations is a conflict
of wits. The wise man knows his tools. He knows best his
capabilities and physical limitations, and can only estimate those of
his opponent. The results of any encounter depend upon the
correctness of the estimates he forms of both his own and his op-
ponent's power. For him to neglect a searching analysis of his
abilities and resources is fatal. To only a certain degree is op-
timism permissible. Past performances and present conditions
contribute the largest factor to any such analysis. Optimism is
based upon the fortunes of the future, which no one can foresee
correctly. While coming events cannot be foretold, yet each
individual has within him the chance so to prepare himself that
adverse conditions will effect him less disastrously than if he were
unprepared.


  p. 1883 (#827)                      #

1925]
1883
The Wise Man Knows His Tools
All peoples are not gifted with the same talents and character-
istics, nor do all nations find themselves possessed of the same
natural resources. Shortcomings in those respects are natural,
but if these deficiencies are appreciated, much can be done to nar-
row the limits within which chance has control. In the same way,
an overplentiful supply of certain substances should not lead to
their easy waste. We are in the midst of a mechanical and ma-
terial era. Man has multiplied his own power many times. Un-
aided, a man may produce about 0.1 horsepower. In 1919, for
each producing man, there was available about 3.25 horsepower.
That is to say, mechanical devices today permit one man's ac-
complishing over thirty times the work which he could do by
himself. A conflict of wits resolves itself into the most efficient
utilization of both the man power and the material power of the
nation.
As a preparation for the accomplishment of the Navy's mission,
a study of strategy is deemed essential. As students we have
had held before us the examples of naval and military strategists,
master minds, comprehensive and flexible, ready to grasp every
opportunity, either of personnel or material. We have been in-
doctrinated with the various phases of strategy, tactics, and log-
istics and we fight our miniature engagements on the game boards
to examine the soundness of the theories we evolve. Finally,
we adjourn to the real game board, the open ocean, and under as
realistic conditions as possible test out these theories. There
is thus an evolution in progress before our eyes—speculation,
theory, and test. There is only one element lacking, and that is
the direct physical opposition of an opponent.
Thus it has been since history began. Seeds of ideas have
been sown from which have sprung up harvests of returns. Some
thinker, dreaming far ahead of his time, has answered the ques-
tions of "why" and "how" to the benefit and advancement of his
time. Each advancement of thought or science has acted as the
center of an ever-widening circle, each point of which, in turn,
serves as the center of a new circle. The circles interweave, and
here and there we find one theory confirming another, as in the
closely related studies of the physicist and the chemist, until little
by little we are able to mark definite and unquestionable advances.
These points of consolidation have only been achieved by the


  p. 1884 (#828)                      #

1884
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
most painstaking study and experiment. The greater the man
the less often does the word “impossible” occur in his vocubulary.
There seems to be nothing which cannot be accomplished if the
time and expense are provided.
For the general purpose of argument, mankind can be divided
into two main classes, those who labor for the physical reward,
such as money or power, and those who labor for the mental
satisfaction of having achieved. These two classes furnish the
material means by which the world has emancipated itself from
the shackles of practically individual slavery, and advanced in an
ever-increasing ratio. The scientist, assisted by the mathematician,
has given us the natural laws upon which the trader, the manu-
facturer, the soldier, and the sailor bases his art, business, or
profession. Each art or business has its strategy of man and ma-
terials. The painter must be careful in the mixing of his colors
if he would not have them fade. The trader senses the forth-
coming demands of his purchasers, whether it be due to personal
or climatic changes, and the manufacturer must plan his work
with a view ahead of the assured sources of his materials, the
machines for their fabrication, and the skillful operators to man
them.
One of the common human characteristics is the distaste for
change. Elihu Root is quoted as saying “.... you cannot make
any improvement in this world without overriding the satisfaction
that men have in things as they are and of which they are a satis-
fied and contented part.” Some individuals have sufficient breadth
of vision to be able to discern the real strength of a new develop-
ment, but by far the greater part require a demonstration to con-
vince them, and often this delay spells the difference between suc-
cess and failure. We owe a debt of gratitude to the people with
imagination for their wisdom. How.often it happens that inven-
tions have been proposed, or theories have been conceived too far
ahead of their times to have them accepted by the world. When
actuated by real danger or necessity most of us will accept un-
hesitatingly any chance for safety, and will clutch at anything that
gives promise of relief. With the advances that have taken place
in the realms of arts and sciences in the last quarter century, the
minds of men are becoming more flexible and more ready to
visualize projected accomplishments, even though they are not yet


  p. 1885 (#829)                      #

1925]
1885
The Wise Man Knows His Tools
tangible. The wonders of radio transmission of speech are ac-
cepted as facts and the radio transmission of motion pictures is not
far removed; yet such advances are received with none of the re-
actions which caused advocates of similar revolutionary ideas to be
burned at the stake for witchcraft only a few generations ago.
The nation or the persons open to them, by reason of their in-
tellect, their physical condition, and their resources, are the ones
who will become the leaders of the future.
There are notable examples of industrial leaders in many nations
who conceived a basic truth, envisioned the practicability of it,
and then threw their life into its accomplishment with the result
that they acquired dominating positions in their country's affairs.
The manufacturer or the business man can do this. He needs ask
no other's consent or counsel, but if his ideas fail he only is in-
volved. No instrumentality of the government has such freedom.
Its growth is erratic, dictated by internal or external conditions.
Inasmuch as any risk incurred is to be shared by the whole nation,
progress must ordinarily be slower than if the risk were assumed
by one man. The nation's defense is an ever-present requirement,
and into its safeguarding no element of chance must enter. This,
however, does not prevent us from utilizing the best developments
that the progress of science affords. Mankind has developed
through competition. At first it was between individuals, then
cities, then states, and, finally, nations. If it were agricultural
competition, better knowledge of tilling or the selection of seeds
constituted an advantage—if it were trading, better knowledge of
markets and sources contributed to success, and, in warfare,
better utilization of resources, more comprehensive training, and
coordinated strategy gave victory.
As the theaters of war and commerce expanded and water came
to be used as a highway for transport, navies came into being,
necessitated by need for the carrying of fighting men and to resist
attacks on such transports as well as on sea-going traders. When
the galleys and triremes were driven by brute force, much knowl-
edge of seamanship was not needed, but upon the advent of sail,
physical endurance no longer determined the operating radius of
the traders and war vessels. The areas of operation shifted from
the bays and the coasts to the open ocean, where the natural
elements had to be met and conquered. To withstand the ocean


  p. 1886 (#830)                      #

1886
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
voyages, the form of the ship gradually altered as well as the
form of the sails and their rigging. From the primitive hollowed
out tree trunk, to the canoe with its gunwales and frames and
plating, if we may call it so, of hides or bark, was evolved the
heavier wooden frames and planking. The towers and tops,
which were necessities of the days of crossbowmen, archers, and
fire throwers gave way to the smooth sheer, as the distance at
which gunpowder and shots were effective, rendered these former
vantage posts unnecessary. The sails and rigging were also
adapted to give the ships better all-round maneuvering power,
seaworthiness, and speed. The square sail and the fore and aft
sail were products of evolution from different parts of the world.
The square sail was an open ocean sail, heavy and safe, and with
the wind abaft the beam, was the chief dependence on ocean
voyages. In certain southern countries, however, where coastal
trade was carried out with the aid of off-shore or on-shore winds,
a fore and aft sail had been developed. The ocean-going ship
eventually adopted each of these types, and thus became composite
at an early stage. No doubt the square rigger captains objected
to the first introductions of these new types of sail which later
are found in the trysails and the spankers. Thus we find our
frigates at the advent of the newer type of propulsion-steam.
A striking example of the dependence of a people upon its ma-
terial and industrial resources is shown by the maritime history
during this first period of transition from wood and sail to steel
and steam. Great Britain was ready with her coal and ore to
start the production of the iron needed for the early ships. This
country had not developed its resources and transportation was in
its youth, with the consequence that it was for a long while out-
stripped in the production of iron and steel, and the machines into
which their fabrication largely entered. Just as gunpowder or
"villainous saltpetre," as it was called, was found hard of ac-
ceptance on its introduction, just so was the suggested substitu-
tion of steam power for sail vigorously opposed by those who
had been trained in the school of sail. It must not be taken for
granted that this opposition arose from the natural distaste of a
smart seaman to have his clean spars and sails begrimed from the
soft coal smoke, and have his decks filled with what were then non-


  p. 1887 (#831)                      #

1925]
1887
The Wise Man Knows His Tools
combatants. We must concede that the only thoughts of those
officers then, as now, were for the best interests of the Navy. As
with any new development, the steam machinery of those days was
not reliable. Metals and designs were in their infancy. Those
laws of steam and mechanics, which we accept without question
today, were still undiscovered, and countless inventors were press-
ing forward on all sides, each with his own pet idea or mechanism.
Such a story is not confined to those days. We have recently
witnessed the same scene enacted. The path of the electrification
of railroads came to a crossroad some fifteen years ago, when
various systems were urged on the companies without due study of
the basic needs for each, with the result that the railroads were
more confused than aided. We are even now in such a similar
epoch when we consider the Diesel engine.
Then, too, the performances of the various types of engines had
not been such that predictions could be made which would aid
flag officers in making a proper tactical utilization of their ships.
Speed-controlled speed—was something new to naval strategy.
It was a tool whose use was not understood. A naval engagement
in those days meant the seizing of the opportunities of wind and
wave and the better seaman won—the admiral who could obtain
'and hold the weather gauge. Strategy of position came first, before
the limited offense of the early armament could be utilized. The
forsaking of the sail for the doubtful value of a slow speed,
engine-driven ship, although the speed could be controlled, did
not appear to be sound, especially since with the heavy sparred
frigates plenty of wind and sea room was all that a good seaman
asked. Steam driven men-of-war were being developed, however,
which showed the possibilities of this form of propulsion.
Notable among them was the Wampanoag, about which Bennet
said "It was the fate of the Wampanoag to live too soon.” The
average sea speed of the transoceanic liners in those days was
about 14 knots, and her speed of over 16 knots was phenomenal.
The value of sea speed as a strategical point of superiority in a
campaign was not realized until over twenty years later.
Further growth of the steel navy awaited the industrial growth
of the country. Not until we could fashion our own steel frames,
plating, armor, guns, and machinery could it be said that our


  p. 1888 (#832)                      #

1888
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Navy was an established fact. Its development paralleled that
of the merchant marine, insofar as conditions permitted, with
this exception, that warships had to be self maintaining. There
was no promise of a friendly port at the end of a specified run.
Speeds were not to be maintained steadily hour after hour. A
warship's speed had to run the gamut from bare steerage way to
full power. Development at this time was largely due to the close
cooperation between the designers at the Navy Department and
the shipbuilders, as land industries had little to offer in the way
of similar equipment, the nearest examples being those of the
heavy duty, slow speed pumping engines, and the larger engines
for driving generators, although these lacked many features which
were peculiar to the marine engines--the necessity for reversal,
and the variations of speed.
The steadily increasing size of the ships and the demands for
higher speed pushed the design of the reciprocating engine to its
limit. In spite of all refinements possible, a point was finally
reached where physical limitations prohibited any further increase.
At this point a new era in the development of naval vessels com-
menced, namely, the direct partnership of the naval engineer and
his brother engineer on land. Although it was seen that land tur-
bines, as then constructed, could not compete economically with the
best reciprocating engines on board ship, yet they had the im-
mediate possibility of an increase of power. The trial boards of
the Navy Department had meanwhile accumulated a vast amount
of data which furnished such a variety of conditions and per-
formances that, from the uncertainty of cut and try methods there
began to emerge definite laws and principles by which the per-
formance of each design could be predicted with a real degree of
accuracy. The physicist was meanwhile establishing quantitative
thermodynamic laws, on which could be based rather exact heat
transfer calculations, while the chemist was contributing investi-
gations on combustion, gas analysis, and so forth. The horizon
of the field of contributory engineering was thus being constantly
enlarged. The manufacturer was realizing the value of research
to himself, and hardly had a new process or a new material been
brought out before it appeared in his practice, and then in naval
ships.
Although the direct connection of the turbine to the propeller
shaft resulted in a serious loss in efficiency for the combination,


  p. 1889 (#833)                      #

1925)
1889
wesele His Tools
The Wise Man Knows His Tools
no means of separation was then offered. With the introduction
of mechanical gearing came the possibility of high speed turbines,
and manufacturers who had been steadily developing this form
for land generating stations were quick to see the adaptability of
their present designs. At first these high speed turbines were in-
troduced as cruising turbines, which resulted in a considerable gain
in economy at lower speeds. Their first use in any quantity was
on the destroyers where the light weight of the high speed machine
was a necessity, and since that time they have been enlarged, until
on the scout cruisers a unit on one of the four propeller shafts
will deliver upwards of 25,000 horsepower, more than both the
main reciprocating engines of one of the earlier battleships.
The development of the engineering plant of the Navy now
having arrived at a point where it was nearly independent of the
former restrictions imposed upon it by the peculiar conditions
attached to marine propulsion, scientists and manufacturers took
a greater interest in naval engineering. The problems of the
naval engineer began to receive from their hands a new touch
which had been impossible to bring about before. Electric pro-
pulsion was one of the first of the peculiarly land developments
taken over almost bodily from shore practice, but only after
searching investigation of the various electrical characteristics of
the installation. From the results of the experimental ship, the
Jupiter, it has been possible to predict ship and motor performances
which have been very successfully applied to the later ships cul-
minating with the machinery of the airplane carrier designed to
produce a total of 180,000 shaft horsepower. It is a far cry from
the early steam engines of Ericcson with their numberless connect-
ing and valve rods, to the smooth running electrical equipment of
today, it being almost impossible to see any moving parts until the
propeller shaft is reached.
From being a hit or miss guess, the design of the boilers and
furnaces is almost as exact a science today as is the design of the
turbines and the generators. Laws governing the transfer of heat
from the furnace to the water have been developed and applied;
the production of uniform and reliable metals has permitted effi-
cient and safe designs, and the studies undertaken in connection
with the combustion of coal and fuel oil have so far progressed
that the performance of the whole machinery plant of a ship can
be predicted to an accuracy of within 2 per cent.


  p. 1890 (#834)                      #

1890
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
All of this development in steam machinery and the other allied
auxiliaries on board ship tending to promote the efficiency of the
ship and the welfare and comfort of the crew has progressed with
the sole idea of making each individual piece of machinery a
direct contribution to the ship's mission. It may appear to one
visiting a ship for the first time that there is an excess of mechan-
isms or installations, but when each is examined by itself it will
be seen that each contributes its own individual part in a highly
efficient and reliable manner without any extra outlay of material
or weight. There is, however, this difficulty to be encountered in
the development of efficient apparatus of this kind, namely, that
it must not be developed too far ahead of the personnel that
operates it. A modern warship is the exemplification of the high-
est form of engineering. From the delicate chemical tests for
powder stability and water salinity to the heavy rotating masses
stressed to loads inconceivable two decades ago, it encompasses
the whole range of mechanics and science. Remember that an in-
stallation may represent the ideas of countless engineers or scien-
tists focused on the solution of the particular problem for that
installation and that the latest laws of science or the latest products
of the metallurgists are taken advantage of to produce this effect,
and, unless the personnel who operate it have the basic under-
standing of the ideas underlying the reason for the functioning
of each component part, the maximum efficiency for which the
installation was designed cannot be attained and a point is reached
where further developments must wait upon training of the per-
sonnel and the problem then passes from the ship designer to the
ship operator.
The advancement of civilization has been dependent upon the
development and intelligent use of tools. The most important link
between human minds waited for the development of the printing
press. Without that indispensable tool, mankind would still be
handing down its history in the form of sagas or ballads. Com-
munication at a distance would be impossible save through the use
of couriers.
The agriculturalist developed and used his plows, harrows, har-
vesters, and threshers. The fisherman likewise extended his re-
sults by seines, trawls, dredges, and other devices. Manufacture
today would be impossible without its furnaces, presses, machine


  p. 1891 (#835)                      #

19251
1891
The Wise Man Knows His Tools
tools, and gages. The availability of a tool is of no use unless it
be used intelligently. Investigation is constantly being made as to
the limits to which a tool may be worked, and a difference between
profit and loss can often be traced to the fact that one manufac-
turer has, by investigation and test, made his tools accomplish
more than those of a competitor.
The intelligent use of tools also depends upon the skillfulness
of the user. It is of no use to put into the hands of an apprentice a
lathe of high accuracy, capable of producing work to the accuracy
of a ten-thousandth of an inch, if his training and manual limita-
tions will only permit him to work to a thousandth of an inch.
This skillfulness can only be obtained through study and training.
An expert mechanic knows his tools intimately—he has studied
them, tried them out under all conditions, and has that feeling of
confidence in them and in himself which is only possible through
such experience.
A factory is laid out to do a certain class of work. The intelli-
gent manager realizes his possibilities as well as his limitations,
and should know what he cannot do, as well as what he can do,
with the tools at his disposal. However, a few slight changes
might make it possible for him to adapt his present machines to
accomplish a different class of work. These possibilities he
should know also.
A fleet is much similar to any such organization. It is planned
to accomplish a rather definite kind of work. The commander-
in-chief is chosen as the head. He has various departments, each
under its own commander. In civilian establishments these ad-
mirals would probably be executive vice presidents. Instead of
the motive power or passenger traffic departments, we have the
battle fleet and the scouting fleet. Now the departments have to
be outfitted with tools which are built to accomplish their part of
the special product. The heavy presses, rolls, and so forth, might
be represented by the battleships, while the automatic screw ma-
chines or the milling machines might represent the destroyers.
So the superintendents in charge of the various subdivisions
are furnished these tools. They must get out of them all that is
humanly possible, and, in the final test, enough more than the
opponent to insure victory. It is not enough to order a thing
done—the order must have the experience behind it that will with-


  p. 1892 (#836)                      #

1892
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
out any possibility of misinterpretation get the work done in a
coordinated manner. One section of a shop cannot work to
thousandths of an inch, and another section work to hundredths
and have the parts produced by each shop work satisfactorily
together.
The shop from which the commander-in-chief must draw his
product—the ships—are furnished by the bureaus, their builders,
with a variegated assortment of tools, each for its own purpose,
and each designed, from long experience, to be the best of its
kind for the duty imposed. First we have the hull, likened to the
factory building. Each type of factory demands thorough con-
sideration of its needs. It all depends upon the nature of the work
to be performed, whether large or small, the size of the individual
pieces, and the nature of the roughing and finishing processes. So
with a ship—it must be of such a form as will best enable it to
carry with the least expenditure of fuel the various tools it must
use, and be so arranged that these tools can be used in the most
expeditious way.
The ultimate mission of a naval ship is the destruction of an
opponent. To accomplish this, we must give the commanding
officer the tools best adapted to his purpose. We have in the shop
forges and presses which take the rough castings and forgings and
reduce them to a size which can be readily machined. Then the
work passes to the lathes, millers, and grinders which give the
ultimate accuracy desired. The ultimate measure of a ship is
the accuracy of delivery of its salvos on the deck and sides of an
adversary. The ultimate means for accomplishing this is by the
projectile. But, in getting that projectile against its target, two
very definite stages are necessary. At the start, the ship may be
thousands of miles from its opponent. The gun will not propel
the projectile over that distance; the ship will have to carry the
projectile to within a range where it can complete the last stage
of its travel by air. Thus there are two distinct trajectories of
the shell—one in the magazine, and one in the air. The engineer-
ing department of the ship is responsible for the accuracy of the
first trajectory, and the gunnery department for the second, and
they are equally important, though this fact is not generally rec-
ognized. If the roughing process of a press is faulty, no later
machine work will repair the error, and if a ship cannot get within


  p. 1893 (#837)                      #

1925]
1893
The Wise Man Knows His Tools
the range of the enemy it does no good to vainly waste the
ammunition.
With the ever-increasing demands for specialized machinery,
whether it be the latest development in vacuum producing equip-
ment, fuel oil burning, or low pressure distilling, there is created
a demand for personnel who must likewise specialize in their
operation. As was said before, the knowledge of countless scien-
tists may be compressed into one piece of simple machinery, taking
advantage of the latest discoveries in natural laws. Each part of
the equipment contributes some definite portion of the efficiency
and the operator must learn by both theory and practice the varia-
tions in the performance of his piece of machinery which will result
from any disturbance of the conditions under which it is operating.
Does it not seem that due attention to the machinery of our ships
on the part of the executive personnel, the line of the Navy, is an
essential today as it was in the time of sail? Mobility, tactical
advantage, strategical position, all mean the same thing in the
hands of the skilled officer.
Such is the nature of the tool which the material bureaus place
in the hands of the command afloat. Evolved through years of
trial, failure, and success, adapted to the conditions that the ad-
mirals in command have demanded through their similar experi-
ence in trial, failure, and success, the efficient operation of these
specialized tools, battleships, destroyers, aircraft, and submarines
must be the common aim of both the designer and the operator.
In battle, forces being equal, professional fitness, worthiness of
the crew, familiarity with the problems of war, combine to insure
victory. Material conditions, such as give greater gun power,
greater numbers of ships, greater machinery power, do not, in
themselves, bring victory. The thing that is of most importance
is the character of the personnel. The living spirit of service
underlies the Navy. By devotion in time of peace such as the
giving up of shore leave for the purpose of repairing a pump or
involving the performance of disagreeable duty, a fitness is
achieved that is otherwise unobtainable and secures the ability to
meet emergencies in time of need that may render the otherwise
impossible, easy to accomplish. To obtain the maximum efficiency
from our ships, everyone concerned with their operation must
have a clear conception of the function, the limitation, and the


  p. 1894 (#838)                      #

1894
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
possibilities of each component part at his command. In war,
there is no time to gain this knowledge. The performance of each
unit of his command must be known to the commander of the
ship or unit in a manner which is as automatic as that of the
driver of an automobile who knows the action of his engine,
clutch, or brakes through long use and familiarity. The knowledge
must be such as to enable the commander to visualize the per-
formance of the unit even before he gives the order respecting its
use. Can this be accomplished by any officer who is unfamiliar
with the means of obtaining reliable mobility; with the means of
determining the range of action of the units of his fleet; with the
means of maintaining maximum reliability in the mobility which
forms the primary distinction between coast artillery and the
navy? Is it not a fact that the actual performance of a particular
duty repeated frequently makes for an improvement in the pro-
fessional fitness of men and of officers ? Otherwise, why do we
drill? Along the same line, it seems to me that the maintenance
of our machinery by the fleet repair forces meticulously adhered
to as a principle in time of peace, develops a certain character and
fitness and worthiness in the navy personnel that is otherwise
unobtainable.
A new development brings with it a host of optimists. The
imagination of its friends knows no bounds. New obstacles are
easily surmountable in the wild clamor of enthusiasm which a
new toy engenders. The immutable law of growth is overlooked.
Science and art must have a steady and healthy growth to endure.
All along the pathway of naval development we see wrecks of
shattered hopes. We have seen the torpedo and the torpedo boat
heralded as the destroyer of the battleship. We have seen the
ram develop and then become obsolete. We witnessed the brilliant
flash of the dynamite gun, only to lose it as quickly, and now we
are confronted with the devastating effect of the aircraft bomb
and are told of the absolute helplessness of the battleship. No
officer would be worthy of his commission if he did not believe
that the duty he was performing was the most important that he
could do. We must expect those who are charged with the de-
velopment and use of each of our tools to foster their growth and
use by all possible means. At times we are in the midst of a wood
so thick that we cannot see it for the trees. Popular enthusiasm


  p. 1895 (#839)                      #

1925)
1895
The Wise Man Knows His Tools
is easily aroused by lurid descriptions, especially when they are
of the fantastic nature which always appeals to and thrills the
imagination. But, it is a hard task to see any romance in some-
thing which has become so familiar with us that we accept it as
commonplace. For many years we shall be confronted with con-
ditions which will be hard to master. We shall see our battleships
unchanged but always growing older. Our tours of duty will take
us from one to the other until they, too, will become commonplace
and their romance will be lost and those with imagination will be
flocking to the standards of any that promise a new form of ex-
citement. The enthusiasm and optimism of those charged with
new developments is to be envied and will be envied by those
whose routine must follow in the wake of the treaty program.
Due to the widespread interest that the Navy has created through-
out the whole country, and the intensive studies of naval needs
resulting from the late war, development has been exceedingly
rapid in the past few years. New types of ships have followed
each other in quick succession, each with the attraction of some
new problem to be solved. As they become older they lose their
novelty, but their possibilities have not yet been reached. We can
imagine a time when new types of ships and planes are no longer
forthcoming, and we shall then be confronted with the necessity
of examining the equipment we have, and studying it in the
detail which time did not before permit. More and more are we
delving into the study of the value of each part of a ship and as
we discover, we begin to evaluate. Our evaluation today has
hardly been more than superficial. We have not really studied or
analyzed to such a degree that we can commence to evolve our
own basic laws as regards the fundamental value of the various
tools at our command. There is no time like the present for such
studies. Economy of expenditures which, in turn, means efficiency
of personnel and materials is made so extremely necessary these
days, to maintain our present force, that any results which will
return a gain in economy in any form will multiply itself many
times in the future. The tools are furnished us and we must get
out of them their maximum value. The more we understand
about all the laws that govern the strategy of the sea the greater
will be the field offered to the commander-in-chief.


  p. 1896 (#840)                      #

1896
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
If the commander-in-chief engaged in making an estimate of
the situation is ignorant of engineering conditions that may deter-
mine the possibility or impossibility of the execution of a definite
plan at a particular distance from the base of repairs or of sup-
plies, he must depend upon someone else for such information.
As this is at least one of the basic considerations underlying any
plan or decision, would not the subordinate, equipped with the in-
formation that the commander-in-chief lacks, be a better man to
make the estimate of the situation and to form the plan? In
other words, is it not possible that ignorance on the part of high
command of engineering may lead either to a rubber stamp ad-
miral relying entirely upon information furnished by the subordi-
nates or, in the case of admirals who are of the opinion that the
"will of the wind” is all, will it not lead to such disasters as the
loss of the Chesapeake?


  p. 1897 (#841)                      #

THE DEVELOPMENT AND GROWTH OF THE
AMERICAN NAVY
By Captain Waldo Evans, U. S. Navy, COMMANDANT 9TH
NAVAL DISTRICT
THE American Navy has been the outgrowth of the desire
to protect our merchantmen lest the swarming pirates be
thereby made more acrimonious than ever; secondly, to
compel the warring nations of Europe to treat us justly. There
is rampant today the feeling that a "strong Navy incites a nation
to go to war," and yet, if we turn back the finger-stained pages
of history, we find the contrary to be true. For eleven years prior
to the War of 1812, the American people, striving to carry on
without a navy, suffered every indignity with enormous and in-
calculable losses of property, life, and happiness.
The influence of the American people has always been exerted
for the promotion of peace, and this influence has been effective
in proportion to the strength of our Navy.
This paper has not a desire to quote sayings of some of our
famous fighting Navy men, and yet, the saying of John Paul
Jones, “I have not yet begun to fight,” or of Commodore Perry,
“To windward or to leeward, they shall fight today," or of Dewey,
"You may fire when you are ready, Gridley," will go down in the
annals of American history as the acts of men who faced an enemy
for the love of home and country.
When the liberty of the colonies was threatened, it was unani-
mously declared by the Rhode Island Assembly “that the building
and equipping of an American fleet as soon as possible would
greatly and essentially conduce to the preservation of the colonies.”
This idea was not considered very popular in the minds of the
peace-loving members of the Congress of the colonies. It was even
thought to be “the maddest idea in the world.” On November 2,
1775, Congress appropriated $100,000 for the fitting out of armed
vessels and ships of force. On November 25, rules for the regu-
lation of the Navy of the United States Colonies were considered
* Address delivered by Captain Evans before the Kiwanis Club of Chicago.


  p. 1898 (#842)                      #


Bureau Aeronautics Photo
Navy SEAPLANE ON CATAPULT ABOARD U.S.S. "TENNESSEE"


  p. 1899 (#843)                      #

1925)
1899
Development and Growth of American Navy
and adopted. This little Congress used for the first time the term
“Navy of the United Colonies.” The first vessel to sail under the
central authority was the cruiser Lee.' Her commission was signed
by President Washington and not by Congress.
The Second Committee of Congress met on December 13, 1775,
and authorized the construction of five ships of thirty guns; five
of twenty guns, and three of twenty-four guns, making a total of
thirteen ships. The cost of each of these ships did not exceed
$66,666. Before the end of the Revolutionary War, the colonies
had sixty-four ships in service. With these ships—and a squadron
loaned by the French to John Paul Jones, the founder of our
Navy, we safe-guarded our liberty and freedom and planted the
seed for a navy that is now a decorous flower to American man-
hood and a respected organization to the world. Before this seed
took root it was threatened by the winds and frosts of internal
and external contention, but, planted by the hands of an honored
and honest people, it received strength and vigor by the repeated
acts of sacrificial heroism. These American farmers left home,
wife, mother, and sweetheart, not to strike for dominion, but for
a deathless principle; not to bleed for gold, but for'a priceless
ideal; not to satisfy blood lust, but to prevent oppression; not to
fight against a people, but to destroy a monstrous system; not
to prolong a bloody conflict, but to roll back theostone of despotism
and recall peace from her crimson grave to immortality. These
men fought to win and consecrate this continent to the principles
of political and religious liberty. On December 22, 1775, we
formally organized the first American fleet, consisting of two ships,
the Alfred and the Columbus; two brigs, the Andrew Dorea and
the Cabot. We afterwards borrowed 400 muskets from the Penn-
sylvania Committee of Safety. Then the schooners, the Fly and
the Wasp, and the sloop Hornet were added. From first to last,
the salt water navy of the Revolution included forty-seven vessels.
The first navy ships were thirteen frigates ordered on December
13, 1775. It is interesting to note that while the guns on these
ships were mounted on wooden carriages, it was with considerable
effort that they were loaded, aimed, and fired. Elevating was done
by means of a handspike under the breech where a wooden wedge,
called a "quoin," was inserted when the desired angle was reached.
There were no gun sights as we have today, because ships fought


  p. 1900 (#844)                      #

1900
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
at close quarters. Firing was done on some ships by flint locks,
but they missed so often that the priming quill was more popular.
This was a split quill, full of powder, inserted in a touch hole of
the gun. The cartridges had already been punctured by a sharp
wire thrust through the touch hole, so that when a slow match in
the hands of the captain of the gun touched off the powder in the
quill the discharge followed almost instantaneously.
From the beginning of the Revolutionary War, there were
swarms of American privateers and state navies. The state navies
were maintained by all the states except two, for the protection
of their coasts. These vessels were small and of shallow draft,
designed for river and harbor defense. The work of the privateers
was of vast importance. In 1775 Congress provided for commis-
sions to be issued to privateers and while many, even Franklin,
realized that privateering was merely legalized piracy, the people
as a whole contended that privateering was not only permissible
but praiseworthy. During the war, Congress bonded 1699 priva-
teers. Salem, Massachusetts, alone had 150; Boston, 365. In
fact, Massachusetts had more than 600 privateers. While the
privateers were bonded at a great expense, it seems now that if
the privateer forces could have been properly concentrated and
handled, they would have swept the enemy from the American
coast and then from the seven seas. Greed blinded patriotism and
statesmanship then as it does now. There is no instance on record
where such splendid power was wasted as was the sea power of
the United States in the War of the Revolution. These facts
demonstrate the importance of building the most powerful ships
possible. The work of the privateers was lauded so highly that
it was felt that they were adequate to defend the nation from
every kind of aggression. When to this faith was added the
hatred of a standing army that had had so large a part in the
development of the revolutionary spirit, the mass of the people
concluded that the maintenance of a navy would be a menace to
American liberty.
When the Revolutionary War ended we had left as a nucleus
of a navy, our best frigate—one ship—the Alliance. But this ship,
too, met the fate of an unbelieving people and was sold as a mer-
chantman. Her bones lie today in the Delaware. With the ves-
tige of protection gone, we became slaves to the hordes of African


  p. 1901 (#845)                      #

1925]
1901
Development and Growth of American Navy
despots and pirates. Like an unprotected child, we were a hope-
less prisoner chained to the dark dungeon floors of despotism.
Our white breasts were covered with blood and were it not for
the fact that we paid those pirates the sum of two million dollars
in tribute, our fires of life might have been quenched.
On March 27, 1794, in order to protect the commerce of the
United States against Algerian cruisers, the President signed an
act providing for five frigates. These were the President, United
States, the Chesapeake, the Congress, and the Constitution. How-
ever, before these frigates were built, a treaty with the pirates
was issued, costing the government a huge sum in buying the
treaty and ransoming prisoners. The act which legalized the
construction of these ships are, nevertheless, the beginning of
the permanent American Navy. Upon the accession of John
Adams as President, not only did Congress agree to complete
the frigates costing $1,141,160, but, on April 20, 1798, $950,000
was voted for the purchase and equipment of an additional
naval force. We were by this time imbued with the fact that,
after all, a navy was at least a guarantee to our commerce.
On April 30, of the same year, the Navy Department was estab-
lished. Various activities sprung up with enthusiastic alertness.
On May 4 the President was authorized to procure cannon and
build foundries and armories. This act was soon followed by the
appropriation of $80,000 for galleys to be used as porcupine quills.
With what was already appropriated, the President was authorized
to accept, if offered by private citizens, six frigates and six sloops
of war, and to pay for them with government bonds. We were
no longer an easy object-nor defiant—but we at least were con-
vinced that we were our own best friends. We were no longer
like the proverbial "groundhog,” afraid to show his shadow. We
decided to show ourselves. In some respects, the most important
act ever passed by Congress took place at this time, when the
President in June, 1798, authorized naval ships to "subdue, seize,
and take any armed French vessel which shall be found within the
jurisdictional limits of the United States or elsewhere on the high
seas." I say important, because it became a law at the beginning
of the work of the new Navy and it declared that if we were to
compel an enemy to do us justice, we must not depend on harbor
galleys but must send ships fit to keep the sea in search of the


  p. 1902 (#846)                      #

1902
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
enemy in his own waters. The new American Navy—three fri-
gates and twelve converted merchantmen—was ordered forth to
fight for the flag.
No more tribute and ransom. In the hope of peace, we had
submitted to every outrage upon the life and the liberty as well
as the property of our citizens. Now, like hunted beasts driven
to a corner, we had turned and shown our teeth.
When the war with Napoleon began, Thomas Jefferson was
President. He had seen in the work of President Adams an
effective method of ending such troubles. He had also read a
report to the House of Representatives under date of January 12,
1801, in which he said:
"When the United States owns twelve ships of seventy-four
guns and double the number of strong frigates . . . . confidence
may be indulged that we may then avoid those wars in which we
have no interest and without submitting to plunder. ...."
However, while Mr. Jefferson intended to coerce, he never
thought of doing so with guns afloat. His first act was to lay up
five frigates on the basis that he wished to avoid taxing the in-
dustry of his fellow citizens for the support of the Navy. The
work on six ships of the line which Congress had authorized was
suspended. President Adams, in 1800, spent $3,448,716 on the
Navy, and in 1802 Mr. Jefferson spent $915,562. Once more we
were a prey to vultures. In 1812, when we cowered under the
party lash, we finally changed to a growl that was unmistakably
heard. When everyone knew that the nation was wholly unpre-
pared for war, when the ships in the British Navy numbered
1,042 and those in the American Navy numbered seven, when
great losses were inevitable and the utter destruction of the nation
was really to be feared, the American people brushed aside every
sordid appeal and demanded a war for the vindication of right.
At the outbreak of the War of 1812, we had sixteen serviceable
war vessels; among them there was not a single one of the line.
True indeed, we had three splendid frigates of forty-four guns :
viz., the United States, the Constitution, and the President. We
likewise had 207 gunboats. These, however, were built for coast
defense and were utterly useless as sea-faring ships. We all
recall the victory of the Constitution over the Guerriere but per-
haps we do not know that this victory saved the nation and made


  p. 1903 (#847)                      #

1925)
1903
Development and Growth of American Navy
permanent the establishment of the Navy and induced the govern-
ment to give the ships their share in the fighting.
In the years following the war with Tripoli, many prominent
citizens were in favor of doing away with the Navy entirely, as
had been done after the Revolution. The administration, having
no confidence in its ships when opposed to the overwhelming
forces of England, was inclining to the course by preventing their
capture by holding them locked in fortified harbors. The victory
of the Constitution changed this. When she came into port the
exultant shouts that arose along the shore swelled to a mighty roar
that was heard and felt to the uttermost parts of the nation.
Once more the national spirit was resurrected, which made possi-
ble the success of the war for the Union in 1863.
In 1814, in the memorable battle of the Essex and the English
squadron, we had exemplified the necessity of speed. Had the
Essex the necessary power to give her the needed speed, Admiral
Porter might have won the day. From this dates the need of
steam-propelled ships. We hear it said on all sides today that
speed is a craze and that the quality most needed in a fighting ship
is ability to stay in the battle line. If we are to invite the enemy
to come to our shores to do the fighting, then speed is of no con-
sequence. But, the men of the Navy who can be trusted to force
the fighting in time of battle are a unit in demanding ships that
will have power to reach the fighting line, and that when there,
will have guns with which to demonstrate the truth of the words
of Farragut, “The best protection against the enemy's fire is a
well directed fire from our own guns."
Prior to and during the War of 1812, naval battles were fought
between ships of sail. However, on account of serious blockades
on the Atlantic coast at will and the further fact that New York
suffered continually, steam ships appeared.
In 1813 Congress authorized the building of a battleship with a
single paddle wheel, having a speed of 5.5 knots an hour. This
ship was built by Fulton and was called by him Fulton the First.
However, this steamer was not completed in time to take part in
any war. On July 4, 1829, she was destroyed by the explosion
of her magazine. By an act of Congress, 1816, authority was
given to construct a steam warship. However, it was not until
1837 that the hull of this ship was launched. Engines that de-


  p. 1904 (#848)                      #

1904
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
veloped 625 horsepower were installed which drove her at a sus-
tained speed of 12 knots. This was, properly speaking, the first
ship of the steam Navy of the United States. In 1839 three steam
vessels were constructed by an act of Congress, each displacing
3,200 tons. They were completed in 1842. In 1849, John Erics-
son, an Englishman, constructed a screw propeller ship instead of
paddle wheels, with her engines entirely below the water line. This
ship was known as the Princeton. The need was felt in 1854 for
the construction of screw propelled ships capable of long cruising,
on account of European nations reaching out for more possessions
on the American continent. We were desirous of keeping the
Monroe Doctrine. As we did not have a sufficient number of
ships of the steam type, Congress passed an act for the construction
of eighteen ships “which shall combine the heaviest armament and
greatest speed compatible with their character and tonnage."
The question of guns was now considered. It will be remem-
bered that in the War of 1812 our guns threw a spherical cast-iron
ball weighing twenty-four pounds. After the war we substituted
thirty-two-pounders—guns with a six-inch bore. In 1845 we in-
troduced eight-inch guns into the Navy. In 1850, John A. Dahl-
gren submitted plans for a nine-inch gun that was immediately
cast. Soon after, an 11-inch gun was ordered, weighing 16,000
pounds, a shot weighing 166 pounds and a shell of 136 pounds.
These guns and the steam propelled vessels played an important
part in the Civil War.
In this war the cast of ships was of different structure than that
of former wars. The need of ironclads was important, for the
Civil War was fought along the coast of the Atlantic and within
range of fort guns. At the outbreak of the war the Navy was in
a wretched condition. When Lincoln took office there were in
commission, including supply ships and tenders, forty-two vessels,
twenty-three of which were propelled by steam. The home squad-
ron consisted of twelve, but of these five were available. The
Navy, when the crisis came, was utterly unprepared. To meet the
emergency, numerous ships and gunboats were hastily constructed
at an expense of $45,000,000. It was President Lincoln's plan to
blockade the coast from Alexandria, Virginia, to the Rio Grande.
This was in miles, 3,549, exclusive of 189 harbor openings. The
task was discovered to be an impossible one. It could not be accom-


  p. 1905 (#849)                      #

1925)
1905
Development and Growth of American Navy
plished in a month nor in several months. We did not have the
ships. Out of ninety vessels on the Union naval list, fifty were
ships of sail. Two of the forty steamers were on stocks, two were
tugs, and one was on Lake Erie. In all, there were twenty-four
serviceable steamers, of which seven were in the home squadron.
While the national Navy was inadequate for any kind of war, the
Federal administration was much better off than the Confederate.
The South had no shops nor did they have mechanics, and yet,
unprepared as were both parties, the Civil War marks the end of
the old in the ships and guns of the Navy and the beginning of
the new.
At this time and a few years before this date, all rifled guns
were muzzle loaders. In 1875 breech loading guns made their ap-
pearance. Rifled cannon, beginning in Russia about 1836, were
essential in the Civil War on account of the armor on ships. These
guns had the advantage of greater penetrating power, greater
range, and increased accuracy. The Parrott guns of 100 and 300
pounders were used almost exclusively.
In ship construction, there was but one important innovation
since the War of 1812. That was the introduction of steam as the
propelling power. Ships were still built on the general lines of
frigates and sloops of war and were fully rigged, for it was sup-
posed that warships would ordinarily use steam power only as
auxiliary power. There were in existence a few side-wheelers but
ships of the latest type built in the United States had screw pro-
pellers. In launching the first steam man-of-war, the Fulton, in
1814, and the first screw propelled warship, the Princeton, in
1843, the United States had the distinct honor of leading the navies
of the world.
By the introduction of steam as the motive power, ships not only
gained in speed but could be maneuvered regardless of the wind.
In consequence, they were much better able to attack or pass forts,
and command harbors and rivers. Furthermore, they were adapted
for a new mode of attacking other vessels, that is, by ramming.
This method of fighting was virtually a return to the tactics of
the Greek and Roman galleys and it proved very effective in the
confined spaces of rivers and narrow bays. It was the Confederate
Navy, realizing that it had no ships, shipbuilders, or seamen, which
brought to light new effective implements—the torpedo boats and
the ironclad.


  p. 1906 (#850)                      #

1906
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The ironclad had its beginning in the Crimean War. The
Merrimac, the first of our ironclads, was 263 feet long and was
covered amidships with a shield of 178 feet, the sides of which
slanted at an angle of thirty-five degrees and rose, when she was
trimmed for battle, seven feet above the water line. The shield
was made of rafters of yellow pine, fourteen inches thick. Super-
posed on the wood was a layer of rolled iron bars eight inches
wide and two inches thick. The whole was bolted through and
through. Thus the vessel had an armor which was four inches
of iron supported by twenty-two inches of wood but which, hori-
zontally, gave a thickness very much greater. The knuckle where
the arinor joined the keel and the two ends of the vessel were
submerged to a depth of two feet, rendering those parts invulner-
able. The rudder and propeller were protected by a heavy solid
deck or fan tail. The armament consisted of ten guns; of the
eight comprising her broadsides, six were smooth bore. The
Merrimac was further armed with a cast-iron beak, wedge shape,
weighing 1,500 pounds.
Probably no naval conflict in the history of the world attracted
so much attention as the battle between the Monitor and the Merri-
mac. It revolutionized the navies of the world and showed that
wooden ships, which had long held control of the ocean, were of
no further use for fighting purposes.
For a brief interval at the end of the Civil War, the monitors
with their Dahlgren guns made the American Navy the most
powerful in the world, but when not in danger of conflict, the
Navy was neglected. The ships that had done good service in the
war wore out. Repairs became expensive. Ten years after the
Civil War the American Navy was the standard of inefficiency
among the seamen of the world. On account of our weakened
condition, we were again denied the respect of foreign nations.
Eight years after the Civil War American ships were captured by
Spanish coast guards. American citizens found on a Cuban fili-
buster were shot to death without trial. Our prestige was gone.
In the period since 1850 the United States Navy had been revo-
lutionized. The wooden frigates were supplanted by ironclads
propelled by steam. Three centuries had not effected such great
changes as had the brief quarter of a century ending in 1865.
These revolutionary changes were mainly the invention of the
rifled gun, the heavy smooth bore Dahlgren, and the torpedo, the


  p. 1907 (#851)                      #

1925)
1907
Development and Growth of American Navy
introduction of the ironclads and the application of steam to ships
of war. Of all these changes, perhaps the greatest was the sup-
planting of sail by steam. This made possible the revival of the
ram which had gone out after the war galleys were succeeded by
the sailing vessels. The first forms of the steamships, the side-
wheelers, were exceedingly vulnerable; but a great advance was
made by the invention of the screw propeller which permitted the

Bureau Aeronautics Photo
Navy SEAPLANE LEAVING CATAPULT ON U.S.S. "RICHMOND"
defense of the machinery by submersion, and by the armor plating
on the sides. The next natural step was the torpedo which was de-
vised for use against the underwater body, the only vulnerable
part of this latest type of ironclad. Thus began the race, still
going on between armor and ordnance. An inventory of the ships
made after the Civil War showed that most of them were unfit
because of faulty design, the use of unseasoned lumber, and the
hurried construction. A process of weeding out took place and
the few vessels that remained, Congress regarded as sufficient for


  p. 1908 (#852)                      #

1908
[Oct
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
a peace footing with the addition of monitors. These monitors
were built in Civil War style with wood heavily plated with iron.
In 1874 they had rotted so badly that they were ordered broken
up and rebuilt in iron. Congress subsequently stopped the work
of reconstruction and for twenty years the United States had not
a single armored ship. During the administration of President
Hayes, our Navy was inferior to that of any nation of Europe;
even Chile's two ironclads would have been more than a match
for all of our ships combined. All naval appropriations that could
be got out of Congress was designed to keep the existing ships in
repair. The Navy Department was forced to rebuild ships under
old names, paying for them out of the proceeds from the sale of
condemned hulls and out of the appropriations for repairs. The
year 1874 marks the lowest point to which the Navy has ever
sunk since the days when the United States had to pay ransom to
Algiers. Out of 140 vessels of the Navy, twenty-five were tugs
and only a few of the rest were in condition to make a cruise.
Not a single ship was fit for warfare, and yet, 1881 marks the
turning of the tide.
The first step toward a new Navy was taken by Secretary Hunt
with the approval of President Garfield in the appointment of an
advisory board. This board recommended the construction of thir-
ty-eight unarmored cruisers, five rams, five torpedo boats, ten
cruising torpedo boats and ten harbor torpedo boats. The smaller
vessels were to be all of steel and of the cruisers it was recom-
mended that eighteen were to be of steel and twenty of wood.
There were some who opposed the use of steel and recommended
iron on the ground that we had no plants capable of producing the
steel required. The new market created new plants to meet its
needs and the decision of the majority resulted in the rapid de-
velopment of one of the greatest American industries, the manu-
facture of steel. The house naval committee urged the building of
two cruisers capable of an average speed of 15 knots; four
cruisers capable of a speed of 14 knots, and one ram. Congress,
on August 5, 1882, called for two steam cruising vessels of war
to be constructed of steel of domestic manufacture—then Congress
neglected to make any appropriation for them. A second ad-
visory board was appointed and recommended five vessels, one of
4,000 tons; three of 2,500 tons—all of steel—and one ram dis-
patch boat of 1,500 tons.


  p. 1909 (#853)                      #

1925)
1909
Development and Growth of American Navy
On March 3, 1883, an act was passed providing the construction
of these ships with the exception of one of the smaller cruisers.
These four, the first of the “White Squadron,” were the Chicago,
the Boston, the Atlanta, and the Dolphin. By the contract with
the Bethlehem Iron Company in 1887, facilities for making the
best of steel armor and forgings for the largest of steel guns were
provided.
Between 1881 and 1887, it was demonstrated that we had to
build steel mills before we could build modern battleships, and it
was demonstrated that even with the best of facilities, it was not
possible to build a battleship in less than a year. The impetus
following gave us ship yards, enabling us to build the best fighting
machines in the world.
In 1890 manufacturing plants were developed in America capa-
ble of turning out the highest type of large caliber and machine
guns, as well as the other requisites for the construction of a
modern battleship. An offspring of this period was the lamented
Maine. In the same year, 1890, the government took a long stride
in naval construction. Hitherto, there were no ships larger than
cruisers, but in this year Congress authorized three first-class
battleships, the Indiana, the Massachusetts, and the world famed
Oregon.
In 1898 our successes in the war with Spain gave the Navy a
tremendous impetus which has since put the United States, for
the first time, in the front rank among the naval powers of the
world. The ships built in 1890 were built for coast defense. While
they displaced nearly 10,000 tons and had a speed of 15 knots they
had a small coal capacity. Consequently, ships of this kind had
to stick closely to the coast. Our Navy at this time consisted of
four battleships of the first class, two battleships of the second
class, two armored cruisers, sixteen cruisers, fifteen gunboats, one
ram, one transport steamer and five torpedo boats. One subma-
rine boat was under construction. The battleships were the Ore-
gon, the Massachusetts, the Indiana, and the Iowa. The New York
and the Brooklyn were the cruisers. The Olympia was the so-
called protected cruiser.
The Porter was the largest torpedo boat in commission and
the first destroyer to be equipped with a wireless. She was 175
feet long and made 28.63 knots an hour. She was likewise armed
with tubes for firing torpedoes.


  p. 1910 (#854)                      #

19ΙΟ
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
With the building of the new ships, we also built guns adopted
from plans obtained from Europe. These were of wrought steel
tubes and were breech loaders. The largest of these guns weighed
sixty tons. They were forty feet long, the bore was thirteen
inches in diameter, and the wrought projectile weighed 1,100
pounds.
In 1899 we brought out the ships of the Virginia class with four
12-inch guns, eight 8-inch, and twelve 6-inch guns. These ships
were up to date beyond question. In 1902, the Louisiana and the
Connecticut were armed with four 12-inch, eight 8-inch, and
twelve 7-inch guns, besides twenty most excellent 3-inch guns.
With our ship development, we likewise took a step forward in gun
development. In our war with Spain less than 3 per cent of the
shots fired from our ships hit the enemy. Under a system of train-
ing adopted after the war, especially after Theodore Roosevelt
became president, our gunners became so expert that we had a
trophy ship in the American Navy in 1907 having a record of
75.782 per cent of hits with all guns at target practice.
At this time, the 12-inch gun was fired twice in a minute with
much more accuracy than was obtained when it was possible to
fire it but once in five minutes. At long ranges, it has been found
that the 12-inch gun is more accurate than guns of small caliber ;
the trajectory of the big gun is flatter. Now, small guns were
mounted because of the supposed greater accuracy with which
they could be fired. It followed, therefore, that when twelve hits
could be made in twelve successive shots from the 12-inch gun-a
record actually made in the Navy, there was no longer any need
for the 7- or 8-inch guns.
In 1910 we had two dreadnaughts of 20,000 tons displacement
carrying ten 12-inch guns in turrets. A battery of 5-inch guns
was provided against torpedo attack. Those ships were capable
of making 21 knots. In armored cruisers we had eight of the
North Carolina class. At the same time we had three scout
cruisers, displacing 3,750 tons and making 24 knots. These ships
were turbine driven ships using the Parsons and the Curtis tur-
bines. All these ships were coal burners. Owing to an unfor-
tunate mishap, the idea of using oil solely was discontinued until
ships of the Nevada and Oklahoma class were launched. Today
practically all capital ships of the American Navy consume oil


  p. 1911 (#855)                      #

1925)
1911
Development and Growth of American Navy
solely. Electric driven ships took the place of reciprocating en-
gines at the appearance of the Jupiter, now the aircraft carrier
Langley. In battleships, the New Mexico was the first one to use
electricity exclusively as a driving power.
We have today in our Navy eighteen battleships which are all
that we are permitted to have by the Washington Treaty.
These ships have a displacement of about 32,000 tons. Of these
eighteen ships, seven are driven by electric power and have four
propellers, developing a horsepower of about 29,000 and giving a
speed of about 21 knots. Eight others are propelled by steam
turbines with four propellers each, developing a total horsepower
of about 30,000 and giving a speed of about 21 knots. The other
three have reciprocating engines. Of these battleships six are
coal burners and they are to be converted into oil burners. All
of these eighteen battleships are armed with a main battery of
guns ranging in size from twelve to sixteen inches, and with a
secondary battery of 5-inch guns to be used against destroyers and
eight 3-inch anti-aircraft guns to be used as protection against
airplane attack.
In cruisers we have ten modern vessels of 7,500 tons each.
These are all driven by steam turbines with four propellers, the
total horsepower being about 90,000 and the speed being about
33.7 knots. Those light cruisers are armed each with twelve
6-inch guns and four 3-inch anti-aircraft guns. They are also
equipped with four torpedo tubes. Besides these modern light
cruisers we have a number of older cruisers that have no great
military value but are useful in time of peace to protect our in-
terests abroad and to show the flag.
In destroyers we have 274, of which only 110 are in full com-
mission, the remainder being tied up to the docks in reserve owing
to insufficient personnel to man them. These destroyers are of
about 1,200 tons displacement and are driven by steam turbines
with two propellers, producing a horsepower of about 26,000 to
29,000, giving a speed of about 33 to 35 knots. Each of these
destroyers is armed with four torpedo tubes and four 4-inch guns,
together with one anti-aircraft gun."
In submarines we have built or are building seven of the larger
type of a little over 1,000 tons displacement. These vessels have
a surface speed sufficient to permit them to accompany the battle
*Five of these destroyers have 5-inch guns.


  p. 1912 (#856)                      #

1912
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
fleet. Besides these fleet submarines we have about ninety sub-
marines of less than 1,000 tons which are useful for coast defense
work only.
In addition to the foregoing types there are a number of aux-
iliary vessels and one aircraft carrier, the Langley. The Langley
was formerly the collier Jupiter and she is the first vessel in which
the Navy installed the electric drive. She is equipped to mount seven
planes on her landing deck and to stow eighteen planes below.
She has a landing platform extending her complete length from
which the planes can depart and return. By an ingenious method,
the planes on lighting are brought to a quick but gradual stop.
Before the Washington Conference we were building six battle
cruisers of 43,500 tons each with a horsepower of 180,000 which
was to give them a speed of about 3374 knots, but, as a result
of the Washington Conference, all of these vessels had to be given
up except two, the Lexington and the Saratoga, which are being
made into aircraft carriers. These two are to have electric drive.
Much of interest might be said about the battleships. They
have a complement each of about 1,200 men and about sixty
officers. Ships of this type are practically huge machine shops
operating completely by electricity. Their electric power consists
of some four to six turbo-driven generators of 300 kilowatts each.
There are three anchors, each weighing about ten tons, which are
hoisted by electric winches. Each has two electric cranes with a
lifting capacity of twenty tons for the handling of boats and heavy
weights.
It may not be generally known that one of these great ships con-
tains the same facilities and necessities that are found in any town
or city for the welfare and comfort of the people. In addition to
the natural ventilation system there is a forced ventilation. Certain
electric blowers take in fresh air on deck and other electric blow-
ers pump out the foul air. In the galleys all cooking is done on
ranges which burn oil. The bake shops are equipped with electric
dough mixers and two electric bake ovens with a capacity of 2,400
pounds of bread a day. Two 3-ton ice machines manufacture all
ice used, insuring the preservation of meats and other perishable
foods with a great degree of certainty. Each ship is equipped with
telephone exchanges with about 200 connections throughout the
ship. Each ship has a completely equipped laundry. Each ship


  p. 1913 (#857)                      #

1925)
1913
Development and Growth of American Navy
also has a modern hospital provided with twenty-four beds, a
complete operating room, an isolation ward, and a dental office.
Each has its own post office which is authorized by the post office
department. All fresh water, unknown in the old navy except for
drinking purposes, is made on the modern vessel from sea water in
the evaporating and distilling plants. This system dates from
1882. The salt water is first evaporated which deposits the salt,
and the steam is then condensed into fresh water. The modern
plants aboard the present capital ships are capable of making
20,000 gallons of water per day.
An important adjunct of our fighting fleet is our aircraft. Each
major ship and cruiser carries a hydroplane which is used prin-
cipally to spot the fall of shots and give information to the firing
ship. This is necessary owing to the fact that the ranges at which
we now fire our guns have increased to 30,000 yards and from
the guns the target is often not visible. All of the guns are fired
by what is known as the director method. By this method the
aim at the target is taken from a station aloft, and by electric
means pointers at the guns are moved and the men at the guns
lay the guns to correspond to these pointers. From the station
aloft the target can be seen at long ranges while at the gun it
cannot be. The airplane flies over the target or the enemy ship
and keeps the firing ship informed of whether the shots are hitting
or going over, or short, and so forth, and the director can then ad-
just his aim accordingly.
The Lexington and Saratoga, which are now being made into
airplane carriers, will carry from seventy to eighty planes, will
have landing platforms as has the Langley, and will have a speed
that will permit them to accompany the fleet.
It is perhaps difficult for the average individual to realize just
how necessary are auxiliary vessels. However, a modern battle-
ship is helpless without them. Some are specialized and must be
part of the regular Navy. These include such units as hospital
ships, supply ships, repair ships, transports, oil carriers, colliers,
and cargo vessels. In 1907, President Roosevelt sent an American
fleet around the world but had no auxiliary colliers to accompany
the ships. To meet the need the government hired merchant ships
and colliers from foreign lines.


  p. 1914 (#858)                      #

1914
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
It has been the endeavor of this paper to describe briefly the
development of the Navy from the whaling ships to the modern
super-dreadnaughts, a development that has kept a steady pace
with our national emergencies, a development that has arisen in
order to preserve our national integrity and to keep this beloved
land of ours in preparation for any crisis.
Without this preparation, no degree of heroism, no amount of
fortitude, no fertility of resources, could suffice for meeting a
crisis adequately. In the development on the material side, the
United States Navy has an enviable record of originality and
leadership.
Today our Navy is more modern, better organized, of heavier
tonnage and greater strength, more completely manned and more
intelligently served than ever before in its history. The great
European war has brought home to all alike the need of prepared-
ness and never again should this nation repeat the fallacies of the
past in naval policy that have in more than one period of years
allowed its naval strength to deteriorate.
If we are to retain our prestige; if we are to keep our place as
one of the great custodians of civilization; if we are to preserve the
heritage of our freedom and our institutions and transmit that
heritage unsullied to our descendants; if we are to guard our
families and firesides, let us keep in our hands the power that God
has given us and renounce once and forever the sophistries that
would shear the Navy of its strength.
Such ships as we have are at least the equals of corresponding
types in any navy in the world and the country has as much reason
today to be proud of its ships and its guns, its officers and men, as
in the days of old.
A navy that takes the seas with a preponderance of naval power
rules the sea almost as if the opposing navy did not exist. Its
lines of commerce and of military supply are practically un-
interrupted. Its industries are suffering from no lack of raw
material and the markets of the world are as freely open to it as
if the war did not exist.
It is interesting to note the frequency with which naval warfare
is "revolutionized" in the minds of the laymen. The introduction
of armor was followed by many predictions that the sides of the
ships could never again be pierced. The development of the gun


  p. 1915 (#859)                      #

1925]
1915
Development and Growth of American Navy
to the point where it overmatches the heaviest armor led to the
confident announcement that armor was useless and that the war-
ship of the future would dispense with it altogether. The success-
ful development of the torpedo was held to make large ships worse
than useless until the net was introduced and hailed as reducing the
torpedo to impotence. So the struggle goes on—and through all
its changes the backbone of the fleet has continued to be the fight-
ing ship of large and steadily increasing size with powers of
offense and defense evenly balanced on the whole, recognizing the
menace of secondary enemies and guarding against them as best
it may, but seeing its real opponent in the battleships and dread-
naughts of the enemy. The dreadnaught of today has succeeded
through gradual, not revolutionary, development of the line of
battleship of two centuries ago. It may be that this type is soon to
become obsolete, but the evidence that this is so, appeals far more
strongly to the popular imagination than to the seasoned judg-
ment of students of naval warfare.


  p. 1916 (#860)                      #

THE ARRAY AGAINST SOVEREIGNTY
By CAPTAIN Wat T. CLUVERIUS, U. S. Navy
W E OWE our national existence to a struggle for inde-
W pendence and frequently, since that initial struggle, have
we been called upon to maintain our sovereignty by the
same means. As a people, we have been remarkably successful in
vanquishing the foe who would destroy it and, as intended, this
nation continues to be the mecca of the world's oppressed peoples
and the goal of those who seek both happiness and prosperity. But,
today, with a world upset and the ashes of a universal conflagration
still smoldering, the Republic is confronted with the most serious
menace to her sovereignty she has yet encountered and of which
the danger is scarcely realized.
I refer to a rapidly increasing enemy from within, already
allied with alien forces and spreading its sinister influence to
school, forum, and church, in every hamlet, town, and city of the
nation.
On all sides there is growing criticism of our fundamental na-
tional institutions ; disregard of civic duties; demands for complete
disarmament; repudiation of obligation; and everywhere, preach-
ings of perpetual peace and of the spread of the brotherhood
of man.
What does all this mean? Is it the natural reaction of a highly
favored nation recently emerged triumphantly from a war in which
it helped to stamp out the ambitions of a lustful monarch who
marked America also for destruction ? Naturally not.
Let us inquire elsewhere, recalling that a nation is made up of
groups of individuals of the same or assimilated blood. These
groups have certain interests. They form a government in order
to safeguard these interests to all concerned. A nation that thus
governs itself exercises its sovereignty. There are many such
groups on the earth's surface today possessing dissimilar char-
acteristics, and, as these groups grow, they make contacts with
*Written for the National Republic.


  p. 1917 (#861)                      #

1925]
1917
The Array Against Sovereignty
other groups and the interests often overlap and are in conflict.
Every properly constituted government has an instrument where-
with it transacts these external affairs by means of conference,
treaty, or arbitration. With us, it is called the Department of
State, an executive department under the Chief Executive. When
this department, through failure of its efforts, is unable to main-
tain the national will and the nation is suddenly plunged into
hostilities and war is declared; then, and not until then, other ex-
ecutive branches of the government are called into play—the
Army and Navy. The flames are extinguished, order is restored
out of chaos, and the nation's sovereignty is again placed out of
jeopardy.
Here are the agencies on the side of sovereignty and it is to
the honor of our citizens that these agencies have ever been able
to maintain them and their rightful goods in security. Moreover,
the President of the United States has recently said that he wants
the armed forces of America to be considered by all peoples "as
the contribution which is made by this country for the maintenance
and security of the world.” A dignified mission, and certainly
worthy of all acceptance.
Now, what of the forces allied against our national solidarity?
To the careful observer these forces are not hidden as was that
new and dreadful agent of destruction, the German submarine,
destroying warship and innocent merchant ship, alike, with in-
credible ruthlessness. The foe now arrayed against us leaves a
distinct trace of its operations in the propaganda which invests
every walk of life. The ranks of this army are composed of pro-
fessionals: its files are amateurs. The leaders are pacifists, so-
cialists, communists, and humbugs. They are organized into
various societies masquerading under high sounding titles and
interlocking in apparently high ethical and humane endeavor. In
every case it is necessary to look for an ulterior motive. In-
evitably there is such a motive which varies from a mere money-
making scheme—an ethical swindle—to the deliberate misguidance
of honest citizens for the purpose of producing disaffection and
thus undermining our institutions. The consummation of such an
object is anarchy and the consequent destruction of all national
resources. Invariably, also, no matter what the variation in type
of those engaged in these activities, or the character of the motives,


  p. 1918 (#862)                      #

1918
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
getting other people's money is always a feature of the job. It is
required in great quantities in order to spread these influences just
as much as it is required to effect nefarious ends in corrupt politics.
Americans are idealists: they are easily touched.
The term “pacifist” has been brought into disrepute, as all good
citizens are real pacifists; that is, they abhor war. They are
really concerned with perpetuating peace which is "war's only
legitimate object.” The personnel of the Army and Navy are
outstanding examples of real pacifists for it has first-hand in-
formation of the horrors of war and the life work of the armed
forces of our country is in the undivided interest of peace. Church-
men and scholars are pacifists. It is these, so often sentimentalists,
who are being influenced by the masquerading pacifists in most
alluring and successful appeal, and with what result ?
It is becoming fashionable to state that war is simply unthink-
able; that it can be outlawed by decree and thus avoided. What
need, we are asked, of any defense? Who can attack? Why not
disarm so that others may surely follow? This sounds fine. Such
reasoning has been drilled into our people by forces working
quietly and incisively who well know that the history of the world
bears out none of this reasoning ; that human nature has been but
little changed in the many centuries known to mankind; that greed
and avarice and thievery still abound; that differences in many
viewpoints can never be reconciled; and that until moral forces are
strong enough among humankind to counteract all these very hu-
man frailties, little change can be expected in the conduct of
nations which are themselves individuals. All this is well known
but cleverly concealed in the appeal. The object of the promoter
-in addition to the incident of making a livelihood—is really to
sell us out. This was brazenly patent in one of the recent national
(save the mark!) political platforms. We will outlaw war. How?
By avoiding war. How? By rendering our armed forces im-
potent. Disarmament again, and why always harping on the
United States ? Very simple, for we are the great creditor nation.
Without might in this very human world today, what would right
do toward effecting the return of billions of our people's money
most unsparingly poured into their government's hands—to give
away? What would become of every commercial treaty with other
nations wherewith the products of the hand of our people are


  p. 1919 (#863)                      #

1925)
1919
The Array Against Sovereignty
marketed to all the world? What would become of the precious
instrument of government which has made so much possible to
its people? The answer is that ungovernment would replace it
and our treasure would be divided up among the hoboes of the
earth.
Here is what eventually becomes of the simple little thing put
forth by the learned and well-meaning teacher of our children.
Nothing more nor less than communism, all of it emanating from
alien sources beneath the contempt of the sovereign government
of the United States.
There are no less than 200,000 of this one type actively engaged
within our borders and bountifully supplied with gold—hard
earned, good American gold at that. Pretty work!
Now consider for a moment a clear example of the inconsistency
of the amateur responding to this stuff which of itself is a really
saving grace.
Among the founders of the Republic—those who had struggled,
remember—were many who had been driven out of Europe
through religious persecution. These saw to it that the Constitu-
tion stressed religious liberty. There was thus made possible the
development of great protestant bodies as unquestioned forces for
spiritual welfare. Shortly after the Great War, one of these
denominations, in convention assembled, demanded an instant dis-
bandment of our armed forces on land and sea. The very next
year this same organization just as strongly demanded the chastise-
ment of a nation, with whom we were at peace, for its treatment of
Armenians. “War with Turkey” was the cry that year. Last
year, this same great spiritual host was on the verge of threatening
the United States with refusal to serve the nation if called up in
its extremity—the country, remember, that had made this church
possible.
The Navy Department at Washington is bombarded with writ-
ten demands from church congregations, east and west, to stop
the maneuvers of our fleet in our own waters—the only way to
produce efficiency—in order not to provoke Oriental powers. In
the same mail, similar organizations demand most anxiously the
protection of their missionaries in the Orient. Heart and reason
are at variance and the heart is certainly improperly stimulated
and reason stultified.


  p. 1920 (#864)                      #

1920
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Then, too, these insinuating agencies that cause this state of
affairs reach into other fields in propagating the tenets they repre-
sent. The fields, however, adjoin. For instance, the notable
communist nation is atheistic. God is decried in this form of
government. It is to the interest of such a nation, in furthering
this degree, to enter into all religious disputes no matter where.
Scientists and intellectuals are made interested and their services
used. Lecturers are sent broadcast under a glowing banner with
illuminating subject thereon. Unknown to many of those engaged,
the organization they represent is controlled by an outlawed asso-
ciation—I mean an association whose very meetings are broken up
by police. At present such a league in America is supporting the
so-called Modernist Cause and the lecturers are establishing
branches throughout the country. Little do many of them suspect
that these branches are naturally nuclei of communistic councils
whose ulterior object is to disrupt all the churches of the United
States in their struggle for universal class supremacy.
The Dayton episode is a side issue. Even that is believed to have
the backing, financial and otherwise, of these apparently benevolent
aggregations. On the plea of intolerance, as evidenced by the
Tennessee statute, an uncommonly well financed outfit, whose out-
standing cry is for civil liberty (and, naturally, we all believe in
civil liberty) is conducting an educational campaign through civic,
professional, religious, and (never fail) womens' organizations.
Now, while this campaign is on, another affiliated organization sug-
gests in an open forum that the time is opportune also for stirring
up industrial strife and this organization decided to import paid
organizers into desired locations in order to create dissension
among the workers. Here we have both the intelligentia and the
proletariat being appealed to for the same purpose.
Along with all this, the straight-forward communistic groups
are organizing the youth for athletics and physical culture likewise
in the interest of class struggle and for revolutionary purposes and
so state—avowedly, to make the working class well disciplined and
efficient as a fighting force. You see, a fighting force again.
On the last Flag Day, in June, a daily communist paper pub-
lished in Chicago and widely distributed, called upon its readers
to denounce any participation in boosting for “the flag that never
protected interests of workers” and this paper proclaimed what it


  p. 1921 (#865)                      #

1925]
1921
The Array Against Sovereignty
called a “Red Week” with instructions to “Agitate.” This week
culminated on July Fourth, the anniversary of an occasion that
brought into being the very lives of those who prate of a “Red
Week” in America and behind which is an actual Red Army, well
drilled and well armed-in Europe.
Perhaps these are not really Americans thus engaged. At a
recent meeting of a society, the first word in whose name is
“American,” of more than 500 persons, eighteen per cent stated
that they were born in the United States. When asked who were
born in Europe, the remainder of those present rose in a body.
The bond between these plainly anti-government masses and the
seemingly innocent and peace loving bands of brothers and sisters
is beautifully interlocked. All have contacts at the seat of our
National Capital. In fact, the literature of many protests received
from various agencies on almost any movement this country sees
fit to make in transacting its own rightful business is traceable to
the activities of a single executive secretary of one of these or-
ganizations whose headquarters is in sight of all of the executive
offices of the government of the United States, and Washington
is acknowledged to be a fruitful place for conventions of all sorts.
The president of a most influential college recently declared in an
open conference in Washington, called to find a cure for war, that
everybody had joined (something or other) "except the United
States and a few other trifling nations.” This conference talked
for a week without result. General Miles, a faithful servant just
called to his reward, in an interview of twelve words, gave the
real solution: "The only cure for war is to eradicate sin from
the world."
The great associations for the well-being of our youth, church
clubs, Bible leagues, temperance unions, all appear on the
letter heads of many clearly propagandist organizations. They
have been led into camp-nothing more, nothing less. They do not
realize it and may not until it is too late to prevent the desecra-
tion of our hearth stones. Can anything be more illustrative of
existing conditions than the Pageant of Lexington, written in con-
nection with the Boston celebration of the Bunker Hill Anni-
versary this year? The text was lauded by a revered Boston paper,
which said that through it ran "a purposeful motif translating
Lexington's Day into the usage of today and tomorrow in Ameri-


  p. 1922 (#866)                      #

1922
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
can life.” Here is a part of the appeal of this poem to Americans:
You people!
Stand up for your rights !
To hell with your duties !
Do you want Freedom?
Well, then, organize !
Wealth is labor!
Property is labor!
Capital is labor!
Organize!
The same author wrote, less than a year before: “I cannot
today imagine the circumstances under which I would again fight
for this or any other country.”
These are the words of the recognized spokesman of the patri-
ots of Lexington, so said a member of the American Defense
Society, patriots whose forbears first voiced American Independ-
ence by declaring that “if they mean to have war let it begin here!"
A grave danger is that all of these radical organizations are merg-
ing. It is an easy matter to disintegrate small bodies when exposed
to the searching rays of the sun. But, truly, in union there is
strength. If our real citizenry, made up of the basic fabrics of
the nation, comes to realize that it is being duped, the danger will
be avoided. This requires just as much education as the propa-
gandist uses and he is using it well. He has a grand argument
and it is penetrating. It has won many converts. The talk of
universal peace is soothing in the extreme.
A peace-loving gentleman and a splendid sailor, formerly in
command of our country's feet and now soon to retire to life in
quietude among his friends, said:
"I beg of you not to be deceived by a dream of eternal peace. The
same passions, prejudices, and selfishness exist today as have always ex-
isted, and will have similar results. This nation of ours achieved its in-
dependence, preserved its integrity, and extended its borders by force. If
we are to enjoy the fruits of the labors of our fathers, we must be prepared
to use the same instrument.”
There is no need here to make a plea for the forces which keep
us a nation. The United States goes the ultimate limit in its
efforts for peace. She welcomes every step looking toward peace.
The whole world owes her a debt of gratitude. She maintains


  p. 1923 (#867)                      #

1925]
1923
The Array Against Sovereignty
an armed force in defense of her lawful rights when, despite all
these efforts, they are encroached upon. She renders her good
offices to weaker nations whenever they are imposed upon. In
time of peace her flag covers her people who are doing their share
of the world's work no matter where they may be. That flag
extends her humanitarianism to every nation under the sun. We
seek no one's territory. Our very altruism is often our weakness.
We cannot see the forces arrayed against us unless they face
our guns.
One glance about the world today will show how much there is
to be done before real peace comes and how great is our share
of it. Even then, when the world is entirely recovered from the
last devastation, how can universally perfected morality be in-
sured ? It is international morality alone that can prevent strife
among nations.
The great Washington in a message to the Congress wrote:
"The United States ought not to indulge a persuasion that, con-
trary to the order of human events, they will forever keep at a
distance those painful appeals to arms with which the history of
every other nation abounds.”
Americans only at their peril can ignore the precepts of their
First President.


  p. 1924 (#868)                      #


U.S. Navy Photo
GENERAL VIEW OF NAVAL RESEARCH LABORATORY, BELLEVUE, D.C.


  p. 1925 (#869)                      #

THE NAVAL RESEARCH LABORATORY
By CAPTAIN Paul Foley, U. S. Navy, TECHNICAL AIDE TO THE
SECRETARY OF THE Navy
THE NAVAL Research Laboratory is, broadly speaking,
concerned with investigations in the field of physical and
technical science as applied to the special requirements of the
naval service.
The idea of such an institution had its inception at the time of
the organization meeting of the Naval Consulting Board on Octo-
ber 7, 1915. The distinguished members of this board were quick
to realize that in order to secure the best results from the work
which they proposed to undertake along scientific and inventive
lines, the construction of a suitable laboratory would be imper-
atively necessary.
There was not at this time, it will be remembered, any provision
in the naval establishment for research work as such. Navy
yards and their facilities were fully occupied with the active work
of construction and maintenance of the fleet as their primary
function. Anything in the nature of research or experimental
work was necessarily subordinated to the exigencies of the pri-
mary function and suffered accordingly. The result, in general,
was that service interest was limited to that which was finished and
for sale upon the market without regard to whether or not it might
be best for the naval purpose.
On March 15, 1916, Secretary Daniels, Mr. Edison, Dr. Beake-
land, Mr. Coffin, Mr. Hunt, and Mr. Saunders, members of the
Naval Consulting Board, appeared before the Committee on Naval
Affairs of the House Representatives, and subjected themselves to
a thorough examination as to the purposes of the laboratory and its
necessity. They convinced the committee that substantial sav-
ings would accrue if means were provided to permit determination
of naval needs by original investigation rather than by the dictum
of the manufacturer.
Accordingly, there was incorporated in the appropriation act


  p. 1926 (#870)                      #

1926
Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
for the year ending June 30, 1917, the sum of $1,500,000 for
laboratory and research work on the subjects of gun erosion;
torpedo motive power; the gyroscope; submarine guns; protection
against submarine, torpedo, and mine attack; improvement in
submarine attachments; improvement and development in sub-
marine engines, storage batteries, and propulsion; airplanes and
aircraft; improvement in radio installations; and other necessary
work of similar character for the benefit of the government service,
including the construction, equipment, and operation of a lab-
oratory; and the employment of scientific civilian assistants as
might become necessary.
The enabling act was fortunately broad and comprehensive,
particularly in the feature of establishing the new activity as a
branch of the Secretary's office, available to the entire naval estab-
lishment, rather than as an appendage of the technical bureaus.
Based upon a study of the considerations that should determine
site, the more important of which were proximity to navigable
streams; general climatic conditions and labor market; availability
of other government machinery and facilities; accessibility to
civilian scientists, and to institutions of parallel character, com-
bined with secrecy and efficiency of operation, and safety from
enemy assault, the laboratory was finally located at Bellevue, on the
Potomac River, four miles below the Washington Navy Yard.
The principal buildings, all of which are of the most modern
steel and concrete construction, include a research building 200 x
60 ft.; a machine shop 300 x 82; a foundry and smith shop; pat-
tern shop and power plant. There is also a barracks to house the
marine guard and enlisted personnel assigned to the station. The
shop and laboratory equipment is elaborate in character and ade-
quate for the service required.
General direction of the establishment centers in the office
of the Technical Aide to the Secretary of the Navy, with an
assistant director, a line officer supervising the physical operations
on the ground. The technical personnel numbers about fifty, as-
sisted by a shop force of about the same number.
Placed in formal commission in July, 1923, the laboratory has
in the second year of operation, established a gratifying record
of constructive performance which fully confirms the vision and
judgment of its sponsors.


  p. 1927 (#871)                      #

1925]
1927
The Naval Research Laboratory
There have been organized to date a Radio Unit under the
general supervision of Dr. A. H. Taylor, formerly of the univer-
sity of Wisconsin; a Sound Unit under Dr. H. C. Hayes, formerly
of Harvard; a Light and Heat Unit, under Dr. E. O. Hulburt,
formerly of Johns Hopkins; and a Ballistic or Pressure Unit,
under Dr. H. H. Moore.
1. ACTIVITIES OF THE RADIO UNIT.—In radio the outstanding
research achievement has been determination of the laws which
govern the formation of radio waves of very high frequency,
and of the mechanism of their propagation through space. This
study has extended over two years. From the knowledge gained
the laboratory is now in position to proceed with the development
of inexpensive and relatively low power transmitting apparatus
which will assure reliable communication over far greater range
than is possible with an existing installation. Incidentally, it has
contributed additional scientific information regarding the upper
layers of the earth's atmosphere, confirming the existence and
establishing the altitude of the so-called Kennerly-Heaviside layer
of maximum ionic density-in popular language, the ceiling of
the sky.
The mass of experimental data from which these deductions
were made was accumulated through the cooperation and as-
sistance of amateur radio operators of the American Relay League,
and their co-workers in foreign countries. These gentlemen have
voluntarily given their time and services in making observations
and reports on experimental transmissions, and in so doing have
played an important part in advancing the radio art.
Research work of almost equal importance has been carried on
in connection with piezo-electric crystals, principally quartz.
The well-known principle of crystal oscillation at fixed fre-
quency seemed of value in controlling the frequency of radio trans-
mitters and receivers. Before practical use of this principle could
be made it was found necessary to investigate more fully the
factors controlling such oscillations. While much remains to be
accomplished, sufficient information is now available to permit
the construction of crystal controlled transmitters and receivers.
Crystals intended for control of this character can be and are
prepared at the laboratory permitting the fixation of oscillations
at any desired number ranging from 20,000 to 11,000,000 per


  p. 1928 (#872)                      #

1928
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
second; and such crystals will oscillate at the determined rate
with a variation of only a few hundred per second. When con-
trolled by such a crystal, a transmitter will have a fixed frequency
regardless of inevitable minor changes in circuit conditions, a
feature which it is impossible to obtain with apparatus not con-
trolled in this manner.
Receivers also can be fitted with crystal control and quickly
brought into step with the transmitter. By thus definitely fixing
the frequency band over which transmission and reception take
place, the number of channels through the ether over which com-
munication is possible is very largely increased.
The principles enunciated have been given practical application
in the construction of an experimental 10K.W. crystal controlled
high frequency (4200 k.c.s.) transmitter built at the laboratory.
This transmitter has been found suitable for direct night traffic
with distant stations, and has been used by the Naval Communica-
tion Service in handling traffic with the west coast, Panama,
Honolulu, Samoa, and European stations, thus taking practically
the entire night load of the highest powered Naval Radio Station.
The economy resulting can be realized when it is considered that
power costs alone have been reduced from about $12.00 to $1.00
per hour, and that the transmitter itself represented but a small
fraction of the costs of the high powered station. Another 1 K.W.
high frequency set has been used by the Navy Department for
daylight traffic, and on occasions messages have been carried
through with this set when those from a 350 K.W. arc set were
indistinguishable because of static interference. It can now be
authoritatively stated that a high frequency transmitting station
can be built at a cost of $60,000 giving better service and longer
range than present high power stations costing $2,000,000, while
the cost of operation and upkeep will be correspondingly reduced.
Additional radio apparati devised to date include a heterodyne
frequency meter, long and intermediate wave receivers, and an
intra-fleet set. Inexpensive and compact air condensers for
shore purposes have been constructed, as also apparatus for the
elimination of losses in trunk circuits, and apparatus for permit-
ting single antennae multiple reception on board ship. A field
transmitting set for use by the Marine Corps has been constructed,
as also an automatic recording apparatus for radio messages. Con-


  p. 1929 (#873)                      #

1925)
1929
The Naval Research Laboratory
siderable work has been devoted to perfecting a better receiver
for coastal radio stations, and in eliminating interference in
arc sets.
Numerous patent applications in adaption of knowledge gained
have been filed, insuring protection to the naval service of work
done and making available to all government departments the free
use of such developments.
A few months ago when the flight of the Shenandoah over the
polar region was under consideration, radio apparatus of special
type was developed and manufactured as an emergency measure.
From data gathered in subsequent flights it has been possible to
remodel at slight cost the installations originally devised, giving
a steadier wave and greatly increased range of daylight communi-
cation. This data permits the design of much more efficient
apparatus than heretofore thought possible for heavier-than-air
craft.
Studies in high frequency communication from lighter-than-
air craft have resulted in the development of apparatus insuring
long range communication with less weight and power than here-
tofore used even for short distances. A sending and reception
schedule arranged with the MacMillan Arctic Expedition has been
astonishingly efficient in performance. Endeavor is also being
made to eliminate reception interference on air craft due to igni-
tion disturbances.
2. ACTIVITIES OF THE SOUND UNIT.—The development of a
simple sonic depth finder has been completed and one model is
undergoing service tests. This depth finder will give accurate
soundings as low as ten fathoms with a possibility of further re-
ducing this to about five fathoms. The device is much simpler
in design and more effective in operation than any now in use,
and will cost less than one-third to manufacture and install. The
saving for each installation will be about $100,000. Work is
under way in development of an automatic visual indicator by
means of which depth indications will be made immediately to the
commanding officer without the intermediary of a special operator.
The development of more effective means of communication
between vessels by the use of the underwater sound waves using
both sonic and super-sonic principles is well advanced. Two
barges intended for use in testing sound apparatus have been fitted


  p. 1930 (#874)                      #

1930
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
up and will be moved in the near future to a location on deep water
where conclusive tests will be made of installations designed and
built for communication purposes during the past year.
Work on the development of a loud speaker for use in trans-
mitting messages on board ship has been undertaken and several
models built. While satisfactory as a loud speaker, it is not
felt that anything so far developed will fully meet the exacting
requirements imposed by conditions on board ship. Several new
principles have been used in the development work. One applica-
tion of experimental data so far obtained will be the design of
an electro-magnetically driven iog signal replacing the present
steam whistle on surface craft, and the compressed air whistle on
submarines and light vessels.
The detection of air craft by acoustical methods has been given
considerable attention, in extension of the work carried on by
others. No actual work is considered warranted until a new and
untried scheme giving promise of success presents itself.
3. ACTIVITIES OF THE HEAT AND Light UNIT.—This unit in
the first six months after establishment is primarily concerned with
investigations of a confidential character in connection with ultra-
violet and infra-red rays. It has also carried on intensive in-
vestigations concerning properties of quartz crystals, and of
apparatus necessary in conjunction with working quartz on a pro-
duction basis.
The unit has undertaken work in connection with the sputtering
of metals, the development of thermo-couples, and the use of the
photo-elastic process for determining the stresses occurring in
metallic structures; also in the laws underlying color combinations,
shapes, and so forth, for visual flag signals.
4. ACTIVITIES OF THE BALLISTIC UNIT.—This unit has accom-
plished the development and manufacture of long range, high
speed cameras for use in connection with projectiles in flight, and
of shell bursts. It has developed, also, cameras for use in anti-air
craft spotting. Calibration tests to determine the velocity of pro-
jectiles before leaving the muzzle of the gun, as opposed to the
velocity in air have been completed. The ejection velocities of
the West Virginia turret guns have been established as from
thirty-five to fifty feet per second less than the muzzle velocity.
Reliable information concerning the pressure developed under


  p. 1931 (#875)                      #

1925)
1931 .
The Naval Research Laboratory
various conditions in the hydraulic steering gear of battleships
has been obtained.
5. The TREND OF FUTURE DEVELOPMENT.—The next step in
the orderly expansion of the laboratory activities will be the estab-
lishment of a metallurgical and chemical unit.
The Limitation of Arms Conference imposed a limitation upon
the size of future construction expressible in terms of weight
alone, that is, displacement. Every ton which, by the use of
lighter and stronger metal, can be saved in the weight of the
hull structure may be applied to add to the strictly military charac-
teristics of the design.
The investigation of metals, especially of the non-ferrous alloys
with regard to lightness, strength, resistance to vibration, to corro-
sion, and climatic changes is one of the most important problems
confronting the naval service.
Negotiations are in progress, also, for the employment of a dis-
tinguished mathematical physicist whose services are urgently re-
quired in the solution of the intricate mathematical problems
arising from day to day in connection with the work of the other
units.
6. AssociATED ACTIVITIES.—The Bureau of Navigation has
established at the laboratory under the supervision of selected
officers a radio class, normally consisting of thirty-five enlisted
men selected from the fleet. The course of instruction is twenty-
two weeks. Advantage is taken of the available radio experts
and equipment to instruct the students in the principles underlying
the design of radio and sound apparatus. Two classes have been
already graduated which have given an excellent demonstration in
subsequent performance afloat.
There are normally attached to the laboratory, also, during the
summer months a number of postgraduate officers which in time
will make the work being carried on more familiar than it now is
to the naval service.
7. CONCLUSION.—The outstanding characteristic of the Re-
search Laboratory contrasted with anything existing elsewhere in
the naval establishment, is that, by reason of the high character
of its technical personnel, and of the shop personnel recruited for
the most part from the Naval Gun Factory, it is possible to work
directly from the mind of the scientist to the hand of the mechanic,


  p. 1932 (#876)                      #

. 1932
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
eliminating entirely the drafting room. The draftsman has no
place in the picture until the apparatus has passed the development
stage and is ready to pass to a production basis.
Pride of performance is the going principle. No consideration
of money or working hours or weather influences the personnel in
the accomplishment of purpose. Much of the work herein out-
lined has necessarily been accomplished in the small hours of the
night. The chairman of the House Committee on Naval Appro-
priations took the opportunity upon the occasion of the committee
hearings to thank the technical staff in the name of the Congress
for the splendid services it was rendering to the Navy Department
and to the government of the United States.


  p. 1933 (#877)                      #

UNIFIED PROCUREMENT OF GOVERNMENT
AIRCRAFT
BY COMMANDER E. E. Wilson, U. S. Navy
ROPONENTS of the United Air Force idea list, as one of
the advantages of the proposed system, unity in the purchase
of aircraft and aeronautical material. Such a proposal has
considerable popular appeal and appears rational until a critical
examination is made. It is the purpose of this paper to make a
brief analysis and, to this end, it is important that we realize in
advance the essential differences between organization and admin-
istration. Organization is a plan for administration. Administra-
tion itself is the executive act. It is, of course, common knowl-
edge that any reasonable plan will be successful with competent
administration and that the best plan will fail with incompe-
tent administration. With this view established, it is interesting
to analyze the unified air force proposal from the standpoint of
procurement.
In general, the Army and the Navy constitute two separate task
organizations. A fundamental requirement for the administration
of any task organization is that its commander have authority
commensurate with his responsibility. During the World War,
there were reported to be instances of different branches of the
government bidding against one another in the procurement of
supplies. The solution lay not in a separate department of pro-
duction charged with procuring supplies for all branches, but in
coordination and cooperation on the part of different procurement
agencies. This solution was fundamentally sound since the com-
mander of the task organization, who has the responsibility for
accomplishing his mission, must, of necessity, have the authority
to accomplish that mission. Both the Army and the Navy use the
same sugar. Through lack of cooperation in the beginning, they
were in competition with one another. Through cooperation at
the end, they eliminated their difficulties, while at the same time


  p. 1934 (#878)                      #

1934
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
each task organization retained authority over the procurement,
for its own needs, of even such a standardized article as sugar.
This principle is the fundamental one on which the unified air
force idea fails insofar as procurement is concerned. The Navy
will require aircraft and aviation material in completing its mission
of maintaining command of the sea. The War Department will
require aviation material in carrying out its mission of defense
against invasion. If, now, either the War or Navy Department
is dependent upon a separate department for its supplies, one or
the other is likely to suffer, depending upon which one is less
dominant in the counsels of defense. This situation will become
all the more acute when it is appreciated that a third department
of the air will, judging by past performance, insist that it alone
can win the war. It will, therefore, be reluctant to release aircraft
to either of the other departments. The result may be so serious
as to bring about the loss of the war.
It may be interesting now to discover just what the proponents
of unified procurement may expect to attain by this unity. It is
conceivable that a single department might bring about some
saving through standardization of equipment, and through placing
a single order to meet the requirements of the army, navy, and air
forces bring about a reduction in price. The fundamental objec-
tion to this is that aircraft for army, navy, and commercial branches
cannot be standardized at the present time. It is impossible even
to standardize the aircraft for one of these departments, much
less for all of them. The requirements which aircraft must meet
are totally different in the three activities.
There is a common impression that an airplane is an airplane
and can therefore be adapted to meet the different requirements.
This is certainly not a fact. Naval aircraft must, in general, be
seaplanes; for carrier use they will also be employed as land-
planes. This requires that they be convertible from landplane to
seaplane and this, in turn, necessitates some structural changes.
It is necessary that naval aircraft be designed to withstand the
loads of catapulting and this requires stiffening. These are essen-
tial details.
A broader difference lies in the fact that aircraft produced for
shipboard are limited in size because of limitations of stowage
space and are restricted in weight because of catapult limitations.


  p. 1935 (#879)                      #

1925]
1935
Procurement of Government Aircraft
These restrictions do not exist for military airplanes. Within
limits, military airplanes can be as large and as heavy as desirable,
but naval airplanes must be reduced both in weight and size to the
absolute minimum consistent with the performance required. This
limitation may bring about the necessity for a larger number of
small airplanes rather than a smaller number of large airplanes.
As a general thing, then, military and naval planes are different
each from the other, and both are different from commercial
planes. Any attempt to standardize the three would bring about
limitations in each, and any attempt to standardize either of the
types at the present time would simply retard development.
One of the essential facts of the late controversy is that the
Army and Navy have been criticized because they have spent a
lot of money and have relatively little to show for it in numbers
of airplanes. This does not indicate incompetency, but rather that
airplanes are extremely expensive. If, now, we had a large quan-
tity of airplanes on hand, they would most certainly be obsolescent
and we would be subject to criticism for having spent a large
amount of money on something which became obsolete almost be-
fore it was delivered. In time of peace, it is the function of the
Army and the Navy to restrict their procurement to the state of
readiness required by national policy, and to devote their efforts
to improvement in quality rather than in quantity. At the same
time, plans must be made for quantity production in time of emer-
gency. The two services, therefore, find themselves between the
devil and the deep blue sea-criticized on one hand for having
failed to purchase large numbers of aircraft when they would be
equally subject to criticism on the other hand had they purchased
large numbers of aircraft. On the whole, it is to our credit that
we have not on hand a larger number of obsolescent types.
The two possible advantages of uniform procurement are im-
possible of attainment. No unified procurement branch could
standardize types and it could not therefore, as a general thing,
bring about a reduction in price by purchase in quantities.
There is, however, a way of accomplishing the desired result,
and there is nothing new about this. It has been in force for a
number of years. In December, 1922, both the Navy and Army
purchased a large number of Curtiss D-12 engines. The price on
this contract was based upon a joint order. The Navy Department


  p. 1936 (#880)                      #

1936
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
conducted the inspections. The engines were delivered and the
advantage of quantity production was reflected in the price. In
1924 the Army and the Navy purchased 130 sets of fuselages and
wings from the Boeing Airplane Company. Since this equipment
was required for the same purposes by both services, the Air
Service purchased the material for the Navy and turned it over.
When it became necessary this year to purchase racers for the
Pulitzer and Schneider Cup events, a joint contract was entered
into in such a way that the quantity required was greatly reduced.
There are many instances of smaller purchases made jointly. This
is the rule rather than the exception. Wherever the same article
will meet the requirements of the specified services, joint arrange-
ments are made. Great strides have been made toward standard-
izing this equipment wherever possible, with a view to joint pro-
curement. The motive behind this is the desire on the part of
each service to get the most for its money. In other words, the
Army and the Navy, through cooperation, had already attained
the results claimed for the united air force and at the same time
have maintained authority over their purchases commensurate with
the responsibility involved.
The agitation for a united air force has produced an impression
that there is little cooperation between the Army and the Navy.
On the contrary, there is a very close cooperation. This is brought
about by the Joint Aeronautical Board. No projects are under-
taken by either the Army or the Navy, as a rule, until each is
satisfied that no duplication will result. Wherever possible, coordi-
nate purchases are made. Excellent examples of this have been
listed above and, in addition, we have a recent concrete example
in the purchase of water-cooled engined fighters from the Boeing
Airplane Company and the Curtiss Aeroplane and Motor Com-
pany. Through a joint order in the first case, and simultaneous
but separate orders in the latter, it was possible to get all the
benefits of semi-quantity production on these orders.
Another concrete example of mutual cooperation came with the
preparations for the polar flight. Both the Army and Navy had
orders for new Loening amphibians. The army airplanes had
higher priority on the list, but General Patrick graciously waived
the priority and furnished the Navy with three complete airplanes
for the polar flight. In the meantime, the Army had had enough


  p. 1937 (#881)                      #

1925]
1937
Procurement of Government Aircraft
experience with these airplanes to point out certain defects. The
Army promptly furnished the material necessary to make the
modifications and gave every assistance in an engineering way in
attaining the desired results. In general, then, we have long been
attaining unity of procurement not through changing the organiza-
tion, but through coordinating the administrations of the task
groups.
The unified procurement idea introduces certain defects inherent
in itself. The British aeronautical trade journals are full of criti-
cism of the technical staff of the Royal Air Force. It is pictured
as a bureaucratic ogre which sits on the throne and through its
know-it-all attitude, hampers the development of aviation. The
best evidence of this domination is the fact that few, if any, avia-
tion records are held in Great Britain, while the development of
new types of aircraft and new types of engines in Great Britain
has been slow. The friendly competition that exists between the
Army and the Navy in this country is the healthiest possible thing
for the industry. A change in organization will result in confusion
for some time. During this time, development would be retarded
and the history of the Royal Air Force indicates that it is resumed
with difficulty. Furthermore, a unified air force, anxious to justify
itself, would certainly be tempted to purchase large numbers of
aircraft which would very likely be obsolescent before delivery.
To summarize, a change in organization to bring about unified
procurement is both unnecessary and undesirable—unnecessary
because unity is already attained, and undesirable because such a
change in organization deprives the task group of authority over
procurement which is necessary to carrying out the mission. Fur-
thermore, it is extremely likely that this unified procurement or-
ganization would carry with it inherent complications which would
serve to defeat its end. The idea is fundamentally unsound in
conception and impossible of attainment.


  p. 1938 (#882)                      #

NEW LEASE OF LIFE FOR OLD IRONSIDES
By HERMAN F. KRAFFT
LD IRONSIDES, the gallant frigate Constitution, is in
imminent danger of falling to pieces. But, rescue from
ruin is at hand, for Congress has given to the children the
privilege of volunteering for its preservation. Patriotic societies
under the leadership of the Daughters of 1812 called attention to
the deterioration in the ship's timbers. The Secretary of the Navy,
himself a graduate of the Naval Academy in the days when the
Constellation, sister ship of the Constitution, took the cadets on
their annual cruises, made a personal visit to the Constitution in
July, 1924. The board of inspection appointed by him reported
at that time that the Constitution's timbers and planking below the
water line were honeycombed with dry rot, and that the cost of
rebuilding her would be $500,000. Above the water she is appar-
ently in sound condition. She is like a house built on sand.
An appeal was at once made to Congress, which, in the closing
days of the last session, incorporated a resolution in the omnibus
bill authorizing the reconstruction of the old ship, but appro-
priating no money for the purpose. To carry on the work of re-
building, the Secretary of the Navy is authorized by Congress to
receive voluntary contributions from the people of the United
States. Accordingly, Secretary Wilbur has started the "Save the
Constitution Fund.” As an inspiration and an object lesson of
the glorious days of 1812 to the boys and girls of today, the invi-
tation to contribute to Old Ironsides' restoration is addressed first
and foremost to the children of America—that the privilege and
honor shall be theirs.
In the last year of Washington's administration the Constitution,
better known as Old Ironsides, was launched. With more fights
to her credit than any two of our other historic men-of-war, after
128 years of service she still floats, and the purpose is to prolong
her inspiring existence.
Reprinted from New York Times of July 26, 1925, by permission.


  p. 1939 (#883)                      #

1925)
1939
New Lease of Life for Old Ironsides
She was Preble's flagship at Tripoli when Decatur and his mid-
shipmen in daredevil fashion set fire to the frigate Philadelphia
and singed the Bashaw of Tripoli's beard. In the War of 1812
she destroyed after memorable duels two of the finest frigates in
the British Navy, the Guerriere and the Java. Thus she helped to
win the "second war of independence," and before its end she had
also captured single-handed the two British ships Cyane and
Levant.
After the close of hostilities the Constitution was the innocent
cause of spilling almost more ink than she had seen of blood in
battle. After bitter political controversy she was repaired and
rehabilitated, and thenceforth wore at her prow a carved wooden
image of President Jackson—who had been anything but wooden
or a figurehead in life. During many years the Constitution con-
tinued cruising in the Atlantic and the Mediterranean, with a look-
out for blackbirders. Two of her fighting commanders, then
growing old, Isaac Hull and Charles Stewart, watched with senti-
mental interest her later career.
After her last cruise as a man-of-war, in connection with the
breaking up of the African slave trade, the Constitution undertook
preparedness duty, serving as training ship for midshipmen, her
valiant traditions, which recalled all that was most glorious in the
days of sail, inspiring their young devotion. In 1897 in Boston,
where she still rests—the same port from which she set forth so
often on her cruises and to which she returned after triumphing
over the Guerriere and the Java—Old Ironsides is still stanch
enough to be the stimulating figure in the celebration of the one
hundredth anniversary of her own launching. When the school
children of America have succeeded in the campaign to preserve
this historic frigate against the ravages of time there will be
another festival in her honor.
During the Tripolitan War the Constitution was the flagship of
Commodore Preble. His men, called his "schoolboys,” had learned
their profession under one of the most rigid and efficient com-
manders of the navy of that day, also under the inspiration of
such deeds in the fleet as that of the ketch Intrepid, in which a lot
of the “boys” blew up the corsairs' gunboats, along with them-
selves. That was the deed that the British Admiral, Nelson, him-
self most strikingly fearless, called the most daring act of the age.


  p. 1940 (#884)                      #

1940
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Of Commodore Preble's schoolboys, three, Isaac Hull, William
Bainbridge, and Charles Stewart, were destined a few years later
to command the Constitution in her memorable battles in the course
of the War of 1812.
Under command of Isaac Hull at the outbreak of this war, the
Constitution escaped from a British squadron of five frigates. By
drenching her canvas with water, by warping her ahead during
spells of calm with a kedge anchor fastened to a mile of hawsers,
and finally by shortening sail in apparently panicky haste at the
approach of a squall, Hull outwitted his pursuers. At the instant
the squall covered him from the enemy's sight, he again unfurled
all sail. Hull's resourceful seamanship won the day, and his crew
took their first rest after a race that had lasted sixty hours.
Soon afterward Hull fell in with the British frigate Guerriere.
They fought like two duelists. Hull's quick movements gave the
Constitution the advantage. She raked with deadly fire the
Guerriere's decks, yet by swift maneuvering skillfully avoided
being raked by the British ship. On the first of these occasions,
when one of the Guerriere's masts crashed overboard, a seaman on
the Constitution shouted to another: “Damn it, Jack, we have
made a brig of her.” Another sailor, who had noticed that the
British shot bounded harmlessly from the Constitution's sides,
gave her the name she has borne ever since—“Huzza, her sides
are made of iron!"
When Captain Dacres of the British ship came up the gangway
of the Constitution, Captain Hull greeted him with the words,
"Dacres, I know you are hurt; give me your hand.” Thus began
in the heat of battle a friendship that lasted till Hull's death in
1843.
Toward the end of 1812 the unluckiest of officers, William Bain-
bridge, who had spent years in dungeons in Guadaloupe and
Tripoli, took command of the lucky ship of the navy, Old Iron-
sides. In her, off the Brazilian coast after a fight as brilliant in
seamanship and gunnery as Hull's, he captured another British
frigate, the Java. When the latter's brave skipper, mortally
wounded, was about to be taken ashore, Captain Bainbridge, him-
self suffering from severe wounds and supported by two sailors,
came on deck to bid Captain Lambert goodbye and to return his
sword. Once more the Constitution carried to Boston the news


  p. 1941 (#885)                      #

1925)
1941
New Lease of Life for Old Ironsides
of victory. It electrified maritime New England and changed the
spirit of apathy to intense patriotism. In this sense Old Ironsides
won the war.
Although both British and American commanders in distant
waters had a suspicion that peace had been made, news traveled
slowly, and Captain Charles Stewart, who commanded the Consti-
tion in 1815, was anxious to add one more laurel to her record.
Toward the close of February, off the Madeiras, he fell in with
two smaller enemy ships, the Cyane and the Levant, and today the
latter's flags hang in the halls of the Naval Academy at An-
napolis. Those two ships were beaten by what a midshipman has
called the "three great ships” of the War of 1812—seamanship,
marksmanship, and leadership. England, in the midst of her
triumphs on the sea against Napoleon, with a thousand sails to
America's twenty-one, felt terribly the losses inflicted during this
war by “Yankee trickery.” Despite our unpreparedness in 1812,
this conflict with England marks a brilliant page in our naval
history.
After the war Old Ironsides underwent a long overhauling. In
the thirties the discussion of her first restoration made the Secre-
tary of the Navy decide to scrap her on the ground that her repairs
would amount to more than her first cost. It was then that a
young law student in Boston, Oliver Wendell Holmes, dashed off
his indignant protest :
Nail to the mast her holy flag,
Set every threadbare sail,
And give her to the god of storms,
The lightning and the gale!
His poem brought immediate response. Under her former
commander, Isaac Hull, despite all opposition, the Constitution
was restored. Her live oak timbers, still sound, had needed little
replacing, but with glistening bright-work and a new set of sails
and rigging she once more looked like her clever old self.
Andrew Jackson being at this time, 1834, President, Captain
Jesse D. Elliott of the Boston Navy Yard conceived the idea of
interesting the West in the traditions of the sea by replacing Old
Ironsides' billet-head, which she had worn on her prow throughout
the War of 1812, by an effigy of "Old Hickory" Jackson.


  p. 1942 (#886)                      #

1972
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Instantly there arose in New England violent anti-Jacksonian
cries against it, for Jackson was cordially disliked by Whiggish
New Englanders. Elliott barely escaped a coat of tar and feathers
(and was finally persecuted out of the Boston Navy Yard), yet
despite opposition he put the Jackson figurehead in place. Then
a young merchantman captain, Samuel Dewey, on a bet, quietly
rowed out one squally black night to the Constitution, which was
moored between two ships-of-the-line, to maim the image of Jack-
son. During the thunder storm Dewey sawed and chipped away,
finally cutting the head off. For months afterward those who were
in the secret met in a club, dined, and drank toasts, while the
wooden head of Jackson adorned the center of the banquet table.
When the club members met on the streets they stroked their chins
in token of recognition. Only after much effort was young Dewey
dissuaded from presenting the head to President Jackson himself.
On a promise of immunity for his partisan vandalism he was
induced to surrender it to the Secretary of Navy. In some Wash-
ington circles there was much secret jubilation over the insult to
Jackson. Of course, some old sea dog might have made a more
appropriate adornment for a man-of-war than a soldier, but ships
had been known to bear the effigies of Presidents. Besides, "Old
Hickory,” like Old Ironsides, had come out of the War of 1812
with untarnished record, which was more than some soldiers and
ships of this period could boast of themselves.
Captain Elliott covered the mutilated figure of Jackson with a
canvas bag, painted on it five stripes in allusion to New England's
indifference during the first part of the war, sailed the Constitution
to Philadelphia and there fitted on a new Jacksonian head. That
she wore for forty years; today it is preserved, a curious reminder
of partisan intolerance, on the grounds of the Naval Academy.
Just before the Civil War Old Ironsides was relegated from
warship to training ship for the Naval Academy. On the occasion
of the embarkation of the midshipmen for their first cruise on the
famous old frigate, some of them wrote to Commodore Charles
Stewart, still hale and hearty and commandant of the Philadelphia
Navy Yard at the age of eighty-two, to invite him to Annapolis
to dedicate the Constitution to her new duties. In his reply the
Commodore says: "I have received your very flattering and kind
invitation to visit you in your new School Ship (Old Ironsides).


  p. 1943 (#887)                      #

1925]
1943
New Lease of Life for Old Ironsides
.... You do me the honor to remind me that I was one of the
many who trod her deck on one occasion of her distinguished
service. It would afford me great pleasure to meet your wishes,
but my short remaining time is so pressed upon by my public and
domestic duties that I am obliged to forego the honor of your
distinguished invitation.”
Noteworthy as have been Old Ironsides' sea fights, they are not
as great as her spiritual victories. In 1812 after her returns from
the Guerriere and the Java duels she aroused the patriotism of
America as nothing else could. During the latter part of the last
century thousands of navy officers gained new inspiration for their
chosen profession when they put foot on her decks. Even in the
recent World War there were some older officers, who as mid-
shipmen had made their initial cruises on this frigate, which in
age and historic significance is for America what Nelson's flag-
ship, the Victory, is to Britain.
Let the school children of America enshrine Old Ironsides. For
similar reasons, as symbol of American progress, she is as worthy
of veneration, as, let us say, Faneuil Hall or Independence Hall.
What though not a timber nor a spike of her old self remains in
her frame, her spirit is immortal, a continuing national inspiration.
The "Save the Constitution" movement now under way is spon-
sored by various patriotic societies in their respective states. Rear
Admiral Louis R. de Steiguer, commandant of the First Naval
District, Navy Yard, Boston, Massachusetts, in whose bailiwick
the Constitution lies, has been designated by the Secretary of the
Navy to be chairman of the "Save the Constitution Fund.” Those
cooperating with him are Mrs. Samuel Preston Davis, national
president of the Daughters of 1812, and A. C. Ratshesky, president
of the United States Trust Company, Boston, who is treasurer of
the fund. W. D. Towner, who, like Mr. Ratshesky, has been
actively connected with Red Cross and other philanthropic move-
ments, has also volunteered his services as secretary of the fund,
with headquarters at the Navy Yard, Boston.


  p. 1944 (#888)                      #

THE GOVERNMENT-OWNED MERCHANT
MARINE
By Leigh C. PALMER,
President, United States Fleet Corporation
THE origin of the present war-built merchant fleet of the
United States is so well-known that it is needless to review
it here. Suffice it to say that shortly after the close of the
World War the United States found itself in possession of a
merchant fleet far in excess of its normal economic requirements
and faced the difficult problem of utilizing it to the best advantage.
In any consideration of the merchant marine it is well to keep
in mind the fact that Congress in no unmistakable terms has de-
clared the natural policy of the American Merchant Marine to be
in part as follows:
"That it is necessary for the national defense and for the proper
growth of its foreign and domestic commerce that the United
States shall have a merchant marine of the best equipped and most
suitable types of vessels sufficient to carry the greater portion of
its commerce and serve as a naval or military auxiliary in time of
war or national emergency, ultimately to be owned and operated
privately by citizens of the United States. . ..."
That is our national policy, and it is significant that no political
party, no section of the country, no important element of public
opinion has voiced any objection to it. Probably no act of Con-
gress has been more favorably accepted.
Let us consider for a moment why this pronouncement was
made by the Congress. It is quite generally understood that the
national prosperity is largely dependent upon our finding a market
for our surplus products. While in time of peace it may be prac-
ticable to depend to a certain extent upon foreign-flag carriers for
our imports and exports, such dependence is most undesirable
since it places our trade facilities largely in the hands of our
competitors; and in time of war foreign-flag vessels are likely to


  p. 1945 (#889)                      #

1925)
1945
The Government-Owned Merchant Marine
be withdrawn from their usual trade routes for war purposes or
for more lucrative employment. In times past, when this country
was a negligible factor in the deep sea carrying trade, we have
experienced such withdrawals of tonnage from our shores and the
results have been very costly to our importers and exporters, and
to the people in general. With a large merchant fleet of our own
this condition would be minimized. In addition, with a large fleet
of vessels under the American flag, millions of dollars which
formerly went out of the country to foreign ship owners would
be kept at home and used to our own advantage.
Then there is the further fact that the national defense requires
a strong merchant marine as an adjunct to the navy. How can
we prosecute a foreign war without vessels for the transportation
of troops and our munitions ? To answer this query, one has but
to recall our experience in the late war when we were dependent
on Great Britain, in large part, for such services.
The merchant marine of the United States divides itself natur-
ally into three groups: that in the coastwise and intercoastal trade,
that in the near-by foreign trade, such as the West Indies and
Caribbean, and that in the overseas trade. Fortunately, our coast-
wise and intercoastal shipping has been protected by law and has
been reserved to vessels built in the United States and flying the
American flag; therefore, it is not to be wondered at that this
particular division of the merchant marine, being free from foreign
competition, is on a safe business footing. The near-by foreign
trade shipping of the United States is in a similar situation, since
while the trade itself is not protected, yet the advantages accruing
to American-flag ships in this trade, such as the proximity of home
ports and the opportunity of engaging in part in our coastwise or
intercoastal trade, more than offset the higher operating costs of
American ships as compared with foreign competitors.
The third division, that employed in the overseas trade, is that
to which the government has given particular attention, and it is
here that our real problem lies, for it is here that our ships must
meet the competition of cheaper foreign labor and cheaper operating
costs in general, as well as compete with vessels which have been
constructed more cheaply in foreign yards. Our problem applies
equally to privately-owned and government-owned vessels in this
trade, and I do not wish to give undue prominence to the govern-


  p. 1946 (#890)                      #

1946
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ment fleet in its relation to our merchant marine. While the gov-
ernment fleet is the larger and is more in evidence because of the
problems it presents to the public, the private fleet is going its way
and doing its work quietly and inconspicuously.
At the time of the post-war inflation of trade and shipping the
shipping board services were being carried on by nearly 200
managing operators and most of the government fleet was in use.
Many of the services overlapped and competed with each other as
well as with private American lines. Only a few of our lines were
of the nature of pioneer services, most of them having been estab-
lished along the major trade routes on which a very considerable
commerce normally flowed, although most of it before the war had
been under foreign flags. Later, when the period of deflation set
in, many services were discontinued, many vessels were laid up,
and the number of operators was reduced until, about a year and
a half ago, the active fleet comprised approximately 350 vessels
and the managing operators had been reduced in number to forty.
However, there were still too many over-lapping services which
created an unbusiness-like situation and it was evident that a
general readjustment was necessary. This the Fleet Corporation
undertook to accomplish by consolidating overlapping or conflicting
lines and forming a single comprehensive line of each route.
In making these consolidations every endeavor was made to
obtain a combination of the organizations of the managing opera-
tors concerned, because it was desired to retain experienced op-
erating personnel and because it was undesirable to eliminate any
managing operator who had rendered good service to the govern-
ment and who was a potential purchaser of shipping board ton-
nage. In most cases, unfortunately, this proved impracticable.
In furtherance of our announced policy to dispose of the lines
to private owners, in consonance with the mandates of the Mer-
chant Marine Act, 1920, we desired to make every effort possible
to place them on a sound business footing. This end was accom-
plished to a considerable extent through the consolidation program
above mentional. Such consolidations made possible the with-
drawal from service of the least efficient services, resulting directly
in important economies; they placed a larger fleet in the hands of
a single managing operator and gave him a larger regional area
in which to operate. This resulted in greater flexibility of service,


  p. 1947 (#891)                      #

1925)
1947
The Government-Owned Merchant Marine
enabled the operator to route his ships to better advantage, short-
ened the time of the ships' voyages, and materially decreased op-
erating expenses without curtailment of service.
In consolidating services none of the essential trade routes were
abandoned and on many of them no reduction of tonnage was
made. On some of the routes, which are highly competitive, our
services are and will be maintained with a view to giving only such
frequency of sailings as may be necessary to protect American
commercial interests and to hold our position in the trade until
conditions improve. As trade conditions improve and better freight
rates are obtainable the services can be gradually expanded to
meet additional demands. The additional tonnage should not be
put on with a view to maintaining an artificially low scare of rates,
that, in effect, would be giving a subsidy to shippers at the expense
of the merchant marine and would prevent the lines from be-
coming self-sustaining and, therefore, salable.
The efforts of the Fleet Corporation are being directed not only
toward the improvement of the lines but also to other matters
which afford opportunity for reducing expenses without impairing
efficiency. In the last eighteen months the annual payroll of the
corporation has been reduced by more than two million dollars.
We have reduced stevedoring costs materially through new and
more favorable contracts; important economies in fuel consump-
tion have been realized through the education of ships' personnel
and the institution of a system of competition among the engineers.
Most important of all, perhaps, has been the establishment of a
budget system by which our disbursements are governed in ac-
cordance with the usual business practices. But, while much has
been accomplished, there is yet much to be done to place our lines
on an efficient commercial basis.
In connection with the subject of consolidation of trade routes
and reduction of tonnage, it may be of interest to know that we
have carried as much cargo during the last year, with the reduced
number of ships, as was carried during the previous year, before
consolidations were effected, while the loss of the entire fleet has
already been reduced from $50,000,000 a year to about half that
amount, and a further reduction is now under way.
Most business men agree that the government has no place in
the shipping business. I would qualify that by saying that the


  p. 1948 (#892)                      #

1948
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
government should be in the business only as a means to an end-
that end being to salvage the war-created fleet to the best advantage
and to promote the national trade interests, at the same time at-
tempting to get as many of the ships as possible into private Ameri-
can hands for permanent service on the essential trade routes.
The question is not merely whether or not it is wise for our gov-
ernment to maintain shipping lines at very considerable cost-it is
broader than this; it is whether the government shall, by its main-
tenance for a time of certain important services, bring about the
establishment of our privately-owned interests both commercial
and defensive. Such security is certainly worth paying for but
we should not let it cost the country more than is absolutely
necessary.
The entire country is coming to realize more and more that the
problems of the merchant marine are not sectional; that it is a
matter of vital concern to the western farmers as well as to the
eastern industrialists whether or not we are maintaining adequate
services to the chief markets of the world for the carriage of our
surplus products, and our essential imports. No country, however
rich in resources, is or can be self-sufficient; it must look beyond
its borders for the commodities it lacks and find markets for the
surplus products of its industries. It follows that no country
vitally dependent on international commerce for its prosperity and
progress can afford to rely unduly on other nationals for the
handling of its surplus products, for the reason that these other
nationals are usually its rivals in the world's markets. It is self-
evident that we cannot leave the carrying of our goods to our
rivals, nor can we afford to depend on them to give primary con-
sideration to our needs in an emergency. It is obvious that if
access to foreign markets is controlled by alien interests they have
it within their power to minimize the advantages of American
products and in a large measure eliminate our exports from suc-
cessful competition with the products of other countries.
In order to take care of the needs of our foreign commerce, the
Fleet Corporation maintains cargo services which extend to every
part of the world where there is any considerable trade with the
United States, except on those routes which are adequately served
by private American lines, it being the fundamental policy of the
Shipping Board to avoid competition with private American ser-
vices.


  p. 1949 (#893)                      #

19251
1949
The Government-Owned Merchant Marine
Regarding the national policy that “the United States shall have
a merchant marine of the .... most suitable types of vessels
sufficient to carry the greater portion of it commerce and serve
as a naval or military auxiliary in time of war or national emer-
gency,” it should be mentioned that during the past year the Presi-
dent appointed a committee to consider certain matters relating to
the merchant marine, which committee was composed of the fol-
lowing members: Chairman of the Shipping Board, Chairman of
the Committee, Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of War, Sec-
retary of the Navy, Secretary of Commerce, and the President of
the Fleet Corporation.
Among other things, the committee made a careful estimate of
the number and types of vessels that the merchant marine might
be called upon to furnish for the use of the Army and Navy in
the event of a war of such character as might involve the national
safety. The following may be given as a summary of this study.
Comparing the estimated requirements with the available ton-
nage, it was found that :
a) Our merchant marine is deficient in large, fast passenger
vessels which would be suitable for airplane carriers and fast
cruisers.
b) There is a considerable deficiency in combination passenger
and cargo vessels suitable for troop transports, and so forth, if a
large armed force were to be transported a considerable distance;
but this deficiency could be largely made up by utilizing available
cargo vessels.
c) There is a large surplus of cargo vessels, and a sufficient
fleet of tankers.
On the whole, the army and navy requirements could be met
fairly satisfactorily, and there would remain sufficient vessels to
carry on a considerable portion of our commercial business.
In time of war it would be essential that this country should
continue adequately to move two characters of imports: (a) ma-
terials necessary for a reasonable measure of comfort of our
civilian population; and (b) materials essential for the manufac-
ture of articles necessary to the prosecution of the war. Modern
war is so much an affair of whole nations and there is so little
demarcation between civilian industry and military industry that
a differentiation between (a) and (b) is possibly academic.


  p. 1950 (#894)                      #

1950
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Similarly, the country must, during war, export goods for two
primary reasons: (a) to maintain as favorably as possible its trade
balance and hence its currency and foreign credit ; and (b) to sup-
ply the raw materials which are essential to foreign industries
which, either normally or by reasons of our expended war-time
needs, are supplying us with vital manufactures.
There are two methods of effecting the necessary transportation ;
in our own vessels or in those of neutral nations. Carriage in our
own bottoms is advantageous in that presumably our vessels will
render more faithful and loyal service and their direction and
control will be simpler and more effiacious than any which we could
exert over neutral shipping.
There will be routes on which it is essential that commerce be
conducted in our own bottoms. There will be routes where the
danger of raid or interruption is great. Such ships will, of neces-
sity, be largely under naval supervision, even though commercial in
purpose. They will be drawn from the best vessels remaining after
the direct military needs have been met, and the military services
themselves must, in setting up their requirements, have such ser-
vices in mind.
Neutral carriers will be available in sufficient number to handle,
at a price, our commercial transportation in time of war provided
that such neutrals are protected to a reasonable degree against de
struction by the enemy. It must not be forgotten that the bulk
of our commerce is still an export commerce and that many of
our exports are almost essential to foreign nations, especially to
those nations possessing considerable tonnage of merchant ship-
ping. Though it is essential to us in time of war to market a
reasonable amount of cotton, grain, and petroleum it is almost
equally essential on the part of consuming nations to continue to
receive such commodities. They must, therefore, if our ships are
withdrawn, send their own or suffer internal demoralization. Since
their ships most come for exports, they will ordinarily be in a
position to bring to us needed imports.
The first step in supplying the sea-borne commercial require-
ments of the nation engaged in war is to secure "command of the
sea.” That is to say, enemy forces must be destroyed or contained
in port to such an extent that the great majority of our commerce
may move without hindrance by the enemy. This step is naval


  p. 1951 (#895)                      #

1925]
1951
The Government-Owned Merchant Marine
and not commercial. Without command of the sea no known
means can be found of supplying our overseas commercial re-
quirements.
The entire commercial shipping of the United States must be
under a centralized control by experienced shipping men, in order
that the most flexible and efficacious use can be made of all ton-
nage. It will probably be desirable that this centralized control
shall act as a selecting authority to meet the needs of the Army and
Navy, as the Shipping Control Committee acted during the last
war.
Returning to the subject of our efforts to put the government-
owned fleet on an economical basis, a little more than a year ago
we were operating 320 cargo vessels at an average loss of more
than $25,000 a voyage. During the year ended last June, the
average loss was reduced to about $20,000 and at the end of that
period it had fallen below $17,000. After careful analysis of the
factors of expense and revenue, we feel that the loss can still fur-
ther be reduced to about $8,500 per voyage, even if the present
low freight rates continue, and that this last figure represents about
the best that should be expected under government ownership. If
and when this result is reached, the total operating loss of the
cargo fleet would be only about $10,000,000 a year, which, how-
ever, does not include interest and depreciation charges, which
must be included if proper comparison is to be made with private
operating results.
The figure of $8,500 loss indicates our present goal. The pres-
ent loss of about twice that amount shows that we still have a long
way to go in improving our revenues and reducing our expenses.
Our study of 1,200 voyages to all parts of the world in a twelve
month period indicates that, if under the best practicable operating
conditions the government losses (including interest and deprecia-
tion) were $13,500 per voyage, the average capable private Ameri-
can owner of this tonnage could reduce that loss to about $4,500.
Further, the same fleet on similar services, if operated under
British conditions, would about break even. In other words, the
differential between the operating results of government-owned
and privately-owned vessels is estimated to be about $9,000 per
voyage, while the differential between operating results of private
American and British vessels, operated with equal efficiency, is
believed to be about $4,500.


  p. 1952 (#896)                      #

1952
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
This last figure, $4,500, may be taken as an approximate meas-
ure of the amount of government aid that would be required to
place American vessels on a competitive footing with British ves-
sels. For a cargo fleet of the size of that operated by the Fleet
Corporation, about 2,500,000 deadweight tons, this aid would
amount to about $5,000,000 a year, and extending this to include
all American cargo vessels in foreign trade, the total might amount
to $7,500,000. This, as stated before, does not include passenger
services, each of which constitutes a more or less special problem
so far as government encouragement or aid is concerned. Passen-
ger and mail lines are usually aided by means of mail subventions,
or subsidized on the basis of naval defense requirements, and the
amount of such subventional aid cannot be estimated in advance
of the determination of the national policy regarding such lines,
but probably it would be somewhere between $5,000,000 and
$10,000,000 a year, or say $7,500,000. Thus it would appear that
the total amount of government aid necessary to put the American
Merchant Marine in foreign trade on a competitive footing would
be about $15,000,000 a year.
Under continued government ownership, a fleet of the present
proportions would cost not only the $10,000,000 operating loss
above referred to, but also a large sum annually for replacements,
for if the government is to continue indefinitely in the shipping
business, the necessity of replacing gradually the present fleet with
new and improved vessels must be faced.
The life of our ships may be assumed to be twenty years; they
are now about six years old. Replacements should be made
gradually since it is unwise to allow a fleet as a whole to deteriorate
to the point of obsolescence and then to completely rebuild it.
Owing to the gradual improvement in types of vessels, their ma-
chinery, and equipment, the fleet can be kept up to date only
through continuous replacement of the oldest and least efficient
ships with new ones.
What would a replacement program cost the government? We
may say that the average replacements would be about twenty
vessels per year when the replacement program is fully under way.
In a large fleet of vessels distributed over the various trade routes
of the world, there would be a considerable variation of types.
They would range from the ordinary, comparatively slow cargo


  p. 1953 (#897)                      #

1925)
1953
The Government-Owned Merchant Marine
vessel of around 8,000 tons to the faster, superior equipped cargo
liner of 10,000 to 15,000 tons. Most, if not all, of them would
be motorships, and a considerable number might be provided with
limited passenger accommodations. Their cost probably would
range from around $800,000 to $1,500,000 each; therefore, if our
replacement program calls for twenty vessels a year, the cost would
average about $20,000,000 per year for new construction for the
cargo fleet alone.
As for passenger liners and combination passenger and cargo
vessels, of which we are operating a total of fifteen, the replace-
ment cost would range from $5,000,000 to $15,000,000 per vessel,
and would average probably $10,000,000 a year. .
Thus, unless the government can find a way to transfer its fleet
to private ownership, as contemplated by the Merchant Marine
Act, we face the definite prospect of having to spend about
$30,000,000 a year continuously for replacements alone. With the
improved administration and higher efficiency toward which we
are working, the operating loss of this fleet may be reduced to
about $10,000,000. Therefore, the prospective cost of continued
government maintenance of a fleet of about the present size is
about $40,000,000 a year.
To summarize, our country faces three alternatives in respect
to the merchant marine in foreign trade: first, continued govern-
ment operation costing ultimately around $40,000,000 a year;
second, government aid to private shipping amounting to about
$15,000,000 a year; or third, the gradual but certain disappearance
of our flag from the international trade routes, and a return to
our pre-war condition when less than 10 per cent of our foreign
commerce was carried in American vessels.


  p. 1954 (#898)                      #

COMPARATIVE NAVAL DATA FOR
THE TREATY NAVIES
(Correct as of September 1, 1925)
Table I–PERSONNEL (Unlimited)
REGULAR
ESTABLISHMENT
(INCLUDING THOSE
OF DOMINIONS)
REGULAR
ESTABLISHMENT
ON BASIS OF
5-5-3-1,67-1.67
RATIO WITH
JAPAN
INCREMENT
NECESSARY TO
ATTAIN THE
5-5-3-1.67-1.67
IN REGULAR
ESTABLISHMENT
ACTUAL RESERVE
PERSONNEL
POWER
Officers
Men
Officers Men
Officers Men
Officers Men
UNITED STATES.... 8,148 86,000 | 12,200 106,452 | 4,052 20,452 | 4,286 17,473(e)
BRITISH EMPIRE.... 9,347 (a) 98,552(b) | 12,200 106,452 2,853 7,900 2,377 44,418(d)
JAPANESE EMPIRE.. 7,320 63,871(f) 7,320 63,871 None 2,506 35,799
FRANCE...........
3,496 55,000 4,075 35,555 579 None 8,375 96,700
ITALY.............
2,188 40,591 4,075 35,555 1,887 None 4,514 60,000(c)
a) These figures include 1,044 officers and 8,439 men of the British Royal Air Force that are performing
duties similar to those performed by the personnel of the U. S. Naval Aviation. The Royal Air Force
is a separate Department ranking with the Army and Navy and has in round numbers 3,365 officers
and 28,880 airmen and 7,815 civilians. Sincc in the United States, Japan and France, naval aviation
personnel forms an integral part of the Navy, it seems only fair that the personnel of the British Royal
Air Force performing duties in connection with naval aviation should be classed in this comparison,
b) Includes 4,113 civilians manning auxiliaries and yard craft for which regularly enlisted personnel
are required in cases of other powers.
c) There is no organized naval reserve of men in Italy, but men who have served in Navy may be
called to colors by levy.
d) Does not include 7,459 retired officers of all ages nor 18,405 pensioners under fifty-five years of
age, who form an additional reserve.
e) Does not include 1,348 retired officers of all ages, nor 261 retired enlisted men, under fifty-five
years of age, who form an additional reserve.
f) An increase in round numbers of about 1,000 enlisted men over May 1924.
ACTUAL RATIOS Enlisted men.........
JOfficers, Regular Establishment..
U. S. Brit. EmP. JAP. EMP, FRANCE ITALY
3.34 3.81 3.00 1.43 0.89
4.04 4.63 3.00 2.59 1.91
5.00 5.00 3.00 1.67 1.67
RATIO APPLIED TO CAPITAL SHIPS BY TREATY.....


  p. 1955 (#899)                      #

1925)
1955
Comparative Naval Data for Treaty Navies
Table II—Capital Ships (Limited)
SCRAPPED UNDER Treaty TERMS
RETAINED
POWER
OLD SHIPS
New SHIPS
TOTAL
TONNAGE
TO BE
ARRIVED TRUE
AT IN RATIO
1941
No.
Tons No. Tons No.
Tons No.
Tons
UNITED STATES....117 267,740 11 465,800
BRITISH EMPIRE... | 24(a) 500,000 None
JAPANESE EMPIRE J 10 163.312 | 2 80.979
FRANCE......
None
None
ITALY.............. None None
28 733,540
24(a) 500,000
12 244.290
None
None
18 525,850 525,000 5.00
20(b) 558,950 525,000 5.00
10 301.320 1 315.000 3.00
(c) 9 197,670 175,000 11.67
(d) 7 135,100 175,000 1.67
a) Includes the King George V, Ajax, Centurion and Thunderer to be scrapped early in 1926.
b) Includes the Nelson and Rodney now building: will probably be completed early in 1926.
c) The battleship France, 23, 500 tons, foundered in Quiberon Bay in August, 1922, thus decreasing
the actual number of capital ships retained by the Republic of France as per treaty from ten to nine.
d) The battleships Leonardo da Vinci, V. Emanuele, and Regina Elena, were voluntarily scrapped in
1922-23, thereby reducing the actual number of ships retained by Italy as per treaty from ten to seven.
TABLE III-AIRCRAFT CARRIERS (Limited)
BUILT
BUILDING
TOTALS
TOTAL
TONNAGE
ALLOWED
TREATY
POWER
INCREMENT
NECESSARY
TO ATTAIN
ALLOWANCE
No.(a) Tons
No.
Tons
No.
Tons
No. Tons
UNITED STATES...
BRITISH EMPIRE..
JAPANESE EMPIRE
FRANCE........
ITALY.....
1 12,700
3 48,190
19,500
2 66,000
| 3 56,300 (b)
1 2 53,800
1 24.000
1 5.000
3
| 6
3
1
i
78,700
104,490
63,300
24,000
5,000
135,000
135,000
81,000
60,000
60,000
2 56,300
1 30,510
1 17,700
1 36,000
2.55,000
None
None
a) Number arrived a by dividing by 27,000—the maximum tonnage allowed for aircraft carriers
hereafter laid down.
b) One additional aircraft carrier authorized by Australia (6,000 tons) is not included in tabulation.
U.S. BRIT. EMP. JAP. EMP. FRANCE ITALY
ACTUAL RATIO, AIRCRAFT CARRIERS, (Tons).... 2.91 3.87 2.34 0.89 0.00
ALLOWED RATIO, AIRCRAFT CARRIERS, (Tons).. 5.00 5.00 3.00 2.22 2 .22
TABLE IV-Light CRUISERS COMPLETED OR Laid Down SINCE 1912
(Unlimited)
BUILT
POWER
AUTHORIZED AND
APPROPRIATED
TOTALS
FOR, OR
BUILDING
No. Tons | No. Tons
TONNAGE TO ATTAIN
ON BASIS 5-5-3-1.67-1.67
OF RATIO WITH
5-5-3. BRIT.
1.67-1.67 No.(c) Tons
No.
Tons
UNITED STATES.... 10 75,000 | 2(a)
BRITISH EMPIRE...48 233,520 | 10
JAPANES E EMPIRE... 16 82,200
FRANCE.......
4(b) 18,200 15
ITALY...........
10(b) 38,730
20,000
94.850
73,995
44,000
20,000
12 95,000 318,370
57 318.370 | 318,370
25 156,195 | 191,022
9 62,200 | 106,335
12 58,730 | 106,335
22 223,370
None
4 34,827
5 44,135
5 47,605


  p. 1956 (#900)                      #

1956
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
a) The sixty-eighth Congress authorized eight 10,000 ton cruisers, appropriating only for two.
b) Some of these are vessels taken over from Central Powers.
c) Number obtained by dividing by 10,000 tons, the maximum size cruiser allowed under terms of
the Naval Treaty.
ACTUAL Ratios, MODERN LIGHT CRUISERS..... U.S. BRIT. EMP. JAP. EMP. FRANCE ITALY
Tonnage............................. 1.82 6.12 3 .00 1.19 1.06
No. Vessels........................... 1.44 6.84 3.00 1.08 1.44
CAPITAL SHIP RATIO ........................ 5.00 5.00 3.00 1.67 1.67
TABLE V-DESTROYER Tyre. First LINE VESSELS (Unlimited)
TOTALS
POWER
BUILT
AUTHORIZED AND
APPROPRIATED FOR
OR BUILDING
LEADERS
DESTROYERS LEADERS DESTROY LEADERS DESTROYERS
ERS
No. Tons No Tous No. Tons No. Tons No. Tons
No. Tons
UNITED STATES... None 289(a) 340,620 None None None | 289(a) 340,620
BRITISH EMPIRE . . 18(b) 31, 310 183(c) 209,315 None 2 2,700 18 31,310 185 212,015
JAPANESE EMPIRE None | 71 75.625 None | 21 30,255 None | 92 105,880
FRANCE..........i 2,400 21 20,105 | 6 14,382 18 25,200 17 16,782 39 45,305
ITALY.....
6 10,752 3530,395 2 4,400 14 17,930 8 15,152 49 48,325
Characteristics-DESTROYER LEADERS, 1st line, 1,500 tons plus; 27 knots plus.
DESTROYERS, 1st line, 800-1,500 tons; 27 knots plus.
a) Includes fourteen light mine layers of destroyer type. Very nearly all of these 289 boats, which
give the U. S. a preponderance in this type, were laid down during the World War in an emergency
program to combat the German submarines, many of them are of hasty construction. Only 105
destroyers and six mine-layers, total 111, are kept in commission.
• b) Includes one mine-layer.
c) Includes one mine-layer.
ACTUAL RATIOS, MODERN DESTROYER TYPES.... U.S. Brit. EMP. JAP. EMP. FRANCE ITALY
Total Combined Tonnage.
a Tonnage............... 9.65 6.89 3.00 1.76 1.80
Total Combined No. Vessels ............ 9.42 6.62 3.00 1.50 1.86
CAPITAL SHIP Ratio......
............. 5.00 5.00 3.00 1.67 1.07
Table VI-FLEET SUBMARINES, First LINE OVER 1,000 TONS Each;
20 Knots Plus (Unlimited)
TONNAGE
ON BASI
5-5-3-
1.67-1.67
AUTHORIZED
AND
APPROPRIATED
BUILT
FOR, OR
BUILDING
No. Tons | No. Tons
TO ATTAIN
THE 5-5 3.
1.67-1.67
Ratio WITH
JAPAN
No. Tons
POWER
TOTALS
No. Tons
UNITED STATES ......
BRITISH EMPIRE....
JAPANESE EMPIRE....
FRANCE.........
ITALY........
1 2,105 5 8,424 (a)
8(b) 16,460 11 1,480
2 2,800 | 21(d) 35,640
None
Nonele)
None | 4 5,200
6
9
23
10,530
17,940
38,440
None
5,200
64,065
64,065
38,440
21,398
21,398
| 26 53,535
23 46,125
None
| 11 21,398
8 16,198
4
a) Does not include tonnage of the V-4 fleet submarine mine-laying type, details unpublished.
b) Does not include three 1,600-ton monitor submarines, M.1, M-2, M.3.
c) Number arrived at by assuming an arbitrary boat tonnage of 2,000 tons.


  p. 1957 (#901)                      #

1925]
1957
Comparative Naval Data for Treaty Navies
d) Includes three 1,000-ton mine-layers.
e) A 3,000-ton submarine, projected to be laid down in 1925, and a similar one in 1926.
ACTUAL Ratios, FLEET SUBMARINES...... U.S BRIT. EMP. JAP. EMP. FRANCE ITALY
Tonnage.....
.......... 0.82 1.40 3.00 0.00 0.43
No. Vessels......................... 0.79 1.17 3.00 0.00 0.52
CAPITAL SHIP RATIOS .................... 5.00 5.00 3.00 1.67 1.67 .
TABLE VII—SUBMARINES, FIRST LINE, 700 Tons Plus, 13 KNOTS Plus
(Unlimited)
POWER
BUILT
AUTHORIZED AND
APPROPRIATED
FOR OR
BUILDING
No. Tons
TOTALS
TONNAGE TO ATTAIN
ON BASIS THE 5-5-3-
5-5 3. 1.67-1.67
1.67-1.67 WITH JAPAN
No. (a) Tons
No.
Tons
No.
Tons
UNITED STATES.... 48 41,923
906 | 49 42,829 54,355 13 11,526
BRITISH EMPIRE... 32 31,030(b) 2(c) 1,780 34 32,810 54,355 25 21,545
JAPANESE EMPIRE | 35(d) 28,620 4 3,992(e) 39 32,612 32,612 None
FRANCE........... 18 16,148(1) 11(g) 13,323 29 29,471 | 18,154 None
ITALY............. 10 8.028 1 6 4,755 116 12,773 | 18,154 1 6 5,381
a) Number arrived at by assuming an arbitrary boat tonnage of 850 tons.
b) Includes three monitor and three mine-laying submarines.
c) Does not include two 1,000-ton submarines authorized by Australia
d) Does not include three 665-ton submarines completed 1923-24, or two 689-ton submarines com-
pleted 1920
e) Does not include one 665-ton submarine.
f) Includes three of mine-laying type.
g) Does not include twelve 600-ton submarines now building.
ACTUAL RATIOS, SUBMARINES, 1st Line.... U. S. Brit. EMP. JAP. Eme. FRANCE ITALY
Tonnage........................... 3.93 3.02 3.00 2 .71 1 .17
No. Vessels. ........................ 3.82 2.62 3 .00 2.23 1.23
CAPITAL SHIP Ratios.................... 5.00 5.00 3.00 1.67 1.67
TABLE VIII-Data REGARDING OBSOLESCENT, OR OBSOLETE, VESSELS
STILL RETAINED
UNITED | BRITISH | JAPANESE FRANCE L ITALY
STATES EMPIRE EMPIRE
No. Tons No. Tons No. Tons No. Tons No. Tons
11 139,450 | 0
-
6
54,672 | 10 121,166 | 3 31,800
11 39,975 | 2 10,490
3 12,512
3 13,762
0
-
CRUISERS (8-in guns plus;
8,000 tons plus; 27 knots
minus; completed before 1912
LIGHT CRUISERS, (8-in.guns
minus; 3,000-8,000 tons; 27
knots minus; compleled before
1912...............
DESTROYERS, 2nd line, 4-in.
guns minus; 500-800 tons; 25
knots plus................
SUBMARINES, 2nd line, 3-in.
guns minus; 700-tons minus;
10 knots plus ............
FLEETSUBMARINES, 2nd line,
3-in. guns; 1,000 tons plus;
20 knots minus............
MINE-LAYING SUBMARINES,
2nd line, 3-in. guns, 800 tons
minus; 8 knots plus.......
8
5,936
6
4,200
12
7,850 | 22 17,616 | 14 10,150
65 31,282
25
10,808
12
4,637
26 11,195
31
8,785
3
3,318
i
1,200 | 0
-
1 1
2,060 | 0
-
0
-
-
1 0
0
-
1 3
1,525 | 2
800


  p. 1958 (#902)                      #

1958
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Table IX–NAVAL VESSELS OF THE THREE PRINCIPAL POWERS
IN COMMISSION
United States
British Empire
Japan
Active In Reserve Active In Reserve Active In Reserve
18
4(a)
None
2
None
None
None
None
32
None
None
None
None
None
None
None
None
11
Capital Ships.
Aircraft Carriers......
Cruisers, (Armored, 8,000 tons) Old
2ndline.................
Light S Modern, 1st line.........
Cruisers Old, 2nd line............
Flotilla leaders .......
Destroyers Destroyers, 1st line....! 105
Destroyers 2nd line... | None
(Light mine-layers.....
(Large (over 1,000 tons
Submarines ? Ist line, 700-1,000 tons)
(2nd line,700-tons minus
Miscellaneous Types .............. 178
None
42
None
28
None
None
Nonc
None
None
48
None
None
None
20
12
240
135
None
68
70
406
264
186
452
264
123
IN RESERVE...............
123
Totals.
407
716
3091
a) Four ships to be replaced by Rodney and Nelson, which will be active in 1926.
Table X-NAVAL AIR STRENGTH (Unlimited)
Note: The tables compiled herewith indicate the airplanes which may be carried with the different
combatant ships of the fleets away from a coast defense area of 1,000 miles. No fairer com-
parison of naval air strength can be made than that based on the plane-carrying capacity of
the fleets at sea. In this connection, it is assumed that aircraft carriers will carry a balanced
force of airplanes-such as bombing, combat, observation planes. In case aircraft carriers
should carry only the smaller types of planes (combat planes) the carrying capacities would be
naturally increased.
| TOTAL
PIANE-CARRYING
CAPACITY
PLANE-CARRYING
CAPACITY
POWER
BUILT
BUILDING
PLANE- TO ATTAIN
CARRYING THE 5-5-3-
CAPACITY 1.67-1.67
ON BASIS CAPACITY
5-5-3 WITH
1.67-1.67 JAPANESE
EMPIRE(I)
Aircraft Battleships Aircraft Battleships
Carriers and Cruisers Carriers (a) and Cruiser
30
74
116(b)
UNITED STATES...
BRITISH EMPIRE..
JAPANESE EMPIRE
FRANCE.
ITALY......
144
216
144
(e)
120(d)
18
248
542
226
112
14
38
377
377
226
112
126
129
None
None
26
72
14
(c)
10(d)
112
a) Total tonnage of aircraft carriers limited by Treaty. (See table for Aircraft Carriers.)
b) Does not include capacity of four battleships to be scrapped in 1926 on commissioning of Rodney
and Nelson,
c) No information available.


  p. 1959 (#903)                      #

1925]
1959
Comparative Naval Data for Treaty Navies
d) Estimated.
e) United States will build two cruisers, plane-carrying details un published.
f) Possible to attain capacity by(1) building aircraft carriers to total tonnage allowed by treaty and
(2) building cruisers to a 5-5-3 basis.
ACTUAL Ratios, NAVAL AIR STRENGTH... U.S. Brit. Emp. JAP. EMP. FRANCE ITALY
Plane Carrying Capacity ............ 3.297 .20 3.00 1.49 0 .33
CAPITAL SHIP Ratios................... 5.00 5.00 3.00 1.67 1.67
FUTURE BUILDING PROGRAMS OF FOREIGN POWERS
ADDITIONAL TO SHIPS BUILDING in preceding tables.
According to Press Reports.
BRITISH EMPIRE
(Passed by House of Commons)
JAPANESE EMPIRE
(Proposed to be acted upon in coming
Diet.)
British building 5 year program-cost
£58,000,000
9 class A cruisers, 10,000 tons each
7 class B cruisers, 8,000 tons each
27 destroyers
23 submarines type 0-1
5 gunboats
4 mine layers
1 submarine tender
1 repair ship
1 net layer
1 Boating dock
40-ship building program for fiscal year
1926-30, including-
4 10,000-ton cruisers to replace four light
cruisers completed one in 1910, three in
1912, total tonnage of 18,950
3 special service ships. (Presumably
tenders)
20 (about) first class destroyers of approx-
imately 1,500 tons each.
12 (about) fleet submarines of about 2,000
tons each.
FRANCE
3
8
ITALY
(Projected but not yet authorized)
Light cruisers--no data
Destroyers to be built between 1925-28
Authorized but not appropriated for-
submarines over 485 tons.
(Passed Senate)
1 10,000 ton cruiser
3 2,500 ton destroyers
4 1,500 ton destroyers
8 1,500 ton submarines
2 mine-layers
1 aviation transport
8


  p. 1960 (#904)                      #

To the Institute's Members:
IT IS BELIEVED THE FIGURES
ON THE INSIDE BACK COVER
THIS ISSUE ARE EXTREMELY
IMPORTANT IF THE CORRECT
INTERPRETATION IS PLACED
UPON THEM.
They show that the officers who have
reached flag rank after at least 37 years of
service are the ones who consider it worth
while to give your Institute their support.
IF THE FLAG OFFICERS SHOW
BY THEIR EXAMPLE THEIR
INTEREST IN OUR
NAVAL INSTITUTE
CAN NOT ALL OF US DO THE SAME?
We need not make a drive. It is suggested,
however, that each commanding officer of
any unit in the line or staff of the Navy
and Marine Corps as well as any member
bring to the attention of non-members the
advisability of their joining.
With the limitations placed upon the Navy
by the Conference for the Limitation of
Armament, it is more important than ever
before in our history that our commis-
sioned and enlisted personnel be of the
very highest efficiency.


  p. 1961 (#905)                      #

DISCUSSION
Excellence of Naval Material
(See page 1573, September, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
COMMANDER C. S. McDowELL, U. S. Navy.—Lieutenant Commander
Craven has given us a paper which contains so much truth and so many
thought provoking facts that it should be carefully read by all in the naval
service. I have found it difficult to obtain the author's exact viewpoint at
all times, due to his unusual use of terms. In particular, I wish he had
found some substitute for "conception" and "conceptive." This, though,
does not vitally affect the value of the paper. The author's title is mis-
leading, for, though he does logically cover naval material in considerable
detail, the real purpose of the paper evidently is to present reasons for
reorganizing the entire Navy Department.
I am in hearty agreement with the author's proposal to organize the
material part of the Navy Department under functional duties. He has
pointed out the glaring example of electrical material which is now handled
separately by six bureaus. There would undoubtedly be a considerable
saving in funds and better material obtained if all electrical engineering
questions and electrical material were handled by one group.
The author proposes two major subdivisions of the Navy Department,
to be known as “Naval Operations” and “Naval Material.” It is noted that
this follows closely the present navy yard organization except in the use of
terms, which, of course, are of no great importance. The retention of the
designation "bureau" as the name for the subdivisions under the major
departments is believed undesirable. It would possibly create the belief
that a certain bureau under the new organization was simply a former
bureau transferred to a new setting. This would endanger the smooth
functioning of the reorganization, by personnel endeavoring to carry over
former duties to their new bureau. The Navy is not bureaucratic and a
better term than "bureau" can undoubtedly be found.
I recognize very clearly the need of technical officers in the Navy, but
I do not see the need of a technical corps in the Navy, provided officers
are assigned to the duties which they are best fitted to fill, and the only
criterion for promotion is whether or not they have performed satisfactorily
the duties which have been assigned them. As I understand the
author, he proposes that the technical officers shall be employed on research,
development, design, and production of all types of naval craft, naval
apparatus, and naval material. The officers would be scientific engineers,


  p. 1962 (#906)                      #

1962
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
or applied scientists, capable of diligently searching for facts and putting
the results of their search into practical use. It is my opinion that the
Navy possesses a large number of technical officers who are now in the
line. I might even go further and say that I believe that all of the best
of our line officers are essentially technical officers. I have served at sea
on the staff of four admirals, as a technical member of the staff, and I
know that those four admirals were each technical officers themselves,
capable of performing technical work of a high order. One of these flag
officers, Admiral A. W. Grant, has carried out eminent technical work since
his retirement. Experience and special training are important factors in
the making of a technical officer, but of greater importance is the desire to
investigate and the will to persevere until bedrock facts are obtained,
coupled with the ability to interpret facts and put them into use. Interest
enters very strongly into the making of an efficient technical officer. I
feel that it is impossible to take a graduate, a couple of years after he
leaves the Academy, put him into a technical corps and be certain that he
should remain a technical officer throughout his service. Possibly in the
course of a few years he might be better back in the line and, conversely,
an original line officer better in his place.
If there are no corps, except the Medical Corps, officers can be assigned
to technical duties or line duties, depending upon their particular aptitude
for different kinds of work. This gives a flexible arrangement and permits
of officers being used where most needed at the time during their careers.
Many officers would undoubtedly be kept on technical work throughout their
entire service. Other officers could be detailed to technical duties at times
and at other times to line duties.
During the war I directed the work of several hundred scientists. These
numbered among them some of the most eminent research men in the
country and several of them were internationally known for their brilliant
achievements. It was the greatest pleasure to work with these men and
see how unselfishly and whole-heartedly they devoted themselves to their
problems. Much time was lost, however, in getting practical results, due
to the fact that these scientists did not know the service conditions which ap-
paratus would have to meet. As a result of this experience I am thoroughly
convinced that naval technical work must be directed and much of the work
actually done by technical officers. These officers should be kept in touch
with the service conditions afloat by periodic tours of duty at sea. These
tours of sea duty need not be lengthy, but they should be fairly frequent
so that the touch of the sea will not be lost in their investigations, designs,
and developments.
Lieutenant Commander Craven is to be congratulated on the great
amount of study he has given to his subject and on the logical deductions
he has obtained. It is to be hoped that this paper, and some of the other
papers lately appearing in the PROCEEDINGS, will stir up service opinion and
result in concrete improvements.


  p. 1963 (#907)                      #

1925)
1963
Discussion
Excellence of Naval Material
(See page 1573, September, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
CAPTAIN B. B. WYGANT, U. S. Navy.—The most important part of
Lieutenant Commander Craven's article seems to be in the conclusions,
which may be generally stated thus:
A reorganization of the Navy Department is required, comprising (1)
a division of naval material which should perform the material functions
of the Bureaus of Construction and Repair, Ordnance, Engineering, Navi-
gation, Aeronautics, Supplies and Accounts, and Yards and Docks; (2)
division of naval operations very much as at present constituted, but in-
cluding personnel ; (3) “The Secretary's Office,” which is further sub-
divided into the budget section, accounting section, and general board.
It is, of course, plainly obvious that the present system results in con-
fusion and waste of money, and that a division into co-equal parts based
on functional activities is essential to the proper conduct of the next war.
As for the particular division that Lieutenant Commander Craven has
selected, it is certainly in the right direction, although a somewhat different
division of the organization might be conceived that would be more in
keeping with the generally accepted ideas of efficiency in military
organization.
The further segregation of the material division into
1. Conception,
2. Design,
3. Production,
4. Maintenance,
5. Operation,
appears to be a logical one.
There are certain "high spots" in this article that deserve to be emphasized.
In speaking of the indirect factors which determine the composition of the
fleet, he says:
"Surrender to the limitations of money is as dangerous a compromise
as any."
This fact is often neglected by those who pride themselves on having of
practical minds. Naval officers should bear in mind the fact that in war
they enter the market place and bid for a certain commodity called victory
and, unlike commercial bidding, no price can be too high, and no other
market place is available than the battlefield. The price must be paid: so
much in lives, so much in money. If the legislators prefer to pay later in
lives than presently in money, that is their business, but they should not do
it with connivance of naval officers.
Another sentence deserving mention is the following:
"It is no more necessary that an officer shall command a battleship
to be qualified to command a fleet than that he should also command a


  p. 1964 (#908)                      #

1964
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
mine layer. This is because no officer is really qualified to command in
war until he has had general tactical training."
This statement is a truism to those who look upon a fleet in the broad sense,
and who realize that he who commands a fleet successfully must command
tactical units and not ships. This statement, however, is subject to the
limitation that since battleships usually form the major unit, familiarity
with their maneuvers is of somewhat greater importance than familiarity
with the maneuvers of subsidiary units.
Excellence of Naval Material
(See page 1573, September, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
COMMANDER C. W. FISHER, (CC), U. S. Navy.—This paper is a timely
and valuable addition to the literature on a subject which, whether we like
it or not, will shortly become of vital importance to the Navy. I hope to
see an increasing number of similar articles from different points of view
so that the service at large may begin to realize the varied aspects of the
problem that confronts it.
I am in general agreement with Lieutenant Commander Craven's analysis
and conclusions to such an extent that I do not wish to cloud the importance
of the main question by differences as to details. His arrangement of the
Navy Department differs somewhat from that proposed by me (see
"Proposed Administrative Changes in Navy Department,” page 357, March,
1925 PROCEEDINGS), and his treatment of the whole problem is broader
than was mine. Many solutions can doubtless be found. The vital thing
is that responsibility, authority, and control of funds must form one un-
broken chain.
It has been said that "Cooperation is where I do what you want me to
do." Such cooperation has been the basis of the relations among the
existing bureaus of the Navy Department. The establishment of the Office
of Naval Operations was an attempt at coordination of departmental effort.
It has been successful in part-up to the point where its activities begin to
infringe upon bureau control of funds, at which point the bureaus clamor-
ously protest, and it is at exactly that point, the control of funds, where
forcible coordination is most needed. Naval Operations and the present
bureau system are inherently antagonistic.
The Navy Yard Division represents another attempt at coordination.
So long as the Navy Yard Division voiced only the unanimous opinion of
the bureaus, and required no money, it was a welcome addition to the bureau
family; but it has failed thus far in every attempt to execute its duties in
the face of a single opposing bureau vote, and, furthermore, during its
four years of life has, (with perhaps one recent exception) been equally
unsuccessful in exercising any authority whatsoever that touched the all-
important question of bureau funds.
Going a few years farther back we find sad memories of an aide for
material, an aide for inspections, and an aide for navy yards. The life of
each was short. Why?


  p. 1965 (#909)                      #

1925]
1965
Discussion
Lieutenant Commander Craven has given us the answer. All these
functions relied upon cooperation instead of coordination. There was no
power behind them. Secretaries issued orders, regulations were changed,
offices were established, but the vital thing was missing-power—the power
inherent in the control of appropriations; and until that power is made
part of any departmental re-organization it cannot stand.
But is any such re-organization needed? Lieutenant Commander Craven
from a coldly analytical study of the functions of the Navy proves with
irresistible logic that it is. Attacking the question from a different point of
view I reached the same conclusion. There is an ever increasing group of
officers who are progressively reaching this identical conclusion. The
establishment of extra-bureau offices, referred to above, indicates that others
thought so many times past. How long shall we wait for the correct
solution and the necessary action? How long can the Navy wait?
The rumors of another drastic cut in the Navy's budget estimates to be
presented to Congress this fall seem to show the urgency of immediate
action. If personnel is to remain at its present strength, then any cut must
necessarily fall upon the maintenance appropriations in greatly magnified
proportions. It is not beyond the realm of possibility that such a condition
might spell the break-down of the present departmental organization.
National Strategy
(See page 1343, August, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
BROCK HOLST LIVINGSTON.-Lieutenant Commander Frost's paper proves
that he has joined the ranks of the advocates of cooperation between the
State and Navy Departments. Since he comes so ably equipped through his
extensive study he is consequently a most welcome adherent.
In this latest paper he suggests that in war time the State Department
be made the agency "to guide our work and the definite diplomatic and
propaganda plans to attack the enemy morale.” He advises a defense
council under the President and composed of the Secretaries of State, War,
and Navy, and economic administration. “These agencies," he writes, "are
just as important now in peace time as in war." The defense council which
he urges is, indeed, as important in peace as in war. It would serve as the
clearing house of national strategy. " Therein could be formulated national
policies only as powerful as could be backed by our armed forces. Within
its meetings could be decided the strength which would be needed to support
proposed national policies. A defense council would serve the purpose of
an exchange of departmental policies. It would increase or, might I say,
bring about, cooperation between the departments.
"A real coordination of our national forces in the next war will be
worth many army corps and battleships.” Let us carry this even further.
A real coordination of our national forces in peace may prove the prevention
of war.


  p. 1966 (#910)                      #


START OF INAUGURAL FLIGHT OF GOODYEAR "PILCRIM" AIRSHIP, AT AKRON, Owo


  p. 1967 (#911)                      #

PROFESSIONAL NOTES
PREPARED BY
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER H. W. UNDERWOOD, U. S. Navy
GENERAL ARRANGEMENT
DRIDI
..
.
..
..
..
.
..
..
.
..
..
..
..
.
..
..
.
1968
1970
1972
1974
anean
........
............
1975
1977
1980
1980
1981
1983
1985
1988
GREAT BRITAIN
The Naval Program ..
British Naval Plans Criticized at Home .
The Royal Dockyards ..
Maintaining the Fleet ......
FRANCE
New French Command in Mediterranean
Progress of Aviation in France .....
Trade Expansion .
New Mine-Laying Submarine ......
ITALY
The Economic Situation in Italy..
JAPAN
The Commercial and Industrial Position in Japan ......
.....
UNITED STATES
Another Side of the 5-5-3 Argument........
The Great Pacific War .....
AERONAUTICS
Commercial Airports and Airways .............
Superchargers ......
Inaugural Flight of Goodyear Pilgrim ........
ENGINEERING
The World's Marine Engineering Situation ...
The Propelling Machinery Controversy.
Selecting Lubricating Oils for Navy Use
Navy to Make Tests with Pulverized Coal
MERCHANT MARINE
Fleet Corporation and Shipping Board Affairs
Motor Passenger Liners .
Motor Liner Asturias .....
Flettner Rudder ....
MISCELLANEOUS
Combat Methods of the Japanese ........
Australia's Apprehensions
Seven "Danger Spots" Still Disturb World
Peace by Cooperation is Institute's Message..
ige....................
CURRENT PROFESSIONAL NOTES AND PAPERS ........ .........
1990
1994
1999
2000
2003
2004
2007
2008
2010
2011
2013
2015
2021
2023
2029
2035


  p. 1968 (#912)                      #

1968
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
GREAT BRITAIN
The Naval Program
The Engineer, 31 July, 1925.— Particulars of the new shipbuilding program
for the navy, which the Prime Minister announced in the House of Commons
last week, are given in a White Paper issued on Monday night. Under
this scheme it is proposed to lay down each year for the next five years
certain craft which are needed to replace older vessels that are rapidly
becoming obsolete. To those who make a study of current naval affairs
it has long been evident that' the system we have pursued since the war of,
as it were, living on our capital in respect of warship material could not
go on indefinitely unless we were prepared to accept a subordinate position
in the ranks of the great sea powers. Such a position would, of course, be
intolerable for many reasons. No party in the state and no responsible
member of any party would recommend as a deliberate policy the surrender
of that measure of naval strength which has justly been regarded as vital
by successive generations of British statesmen, with the whole-hearted
support of the people. It is true that the role of the navy as our first line
of defense has been somewhat modified by the conquest of the air. Our
insular situation, no longer confers the complete immunity from oversea
attack which we formerly enjoyed by virtue of a powerful fleet. Under
present circumstances the navy of itself cannot guarantee our coasts against
insult. Science has evolved a weapon by which the afortime invincible
cordon of sea defense may be evaded, and telling blows be delivered at the
very heart of the empire. But, to argue that because the navy has ceased
to be a sure shield in every sense of the term it is not worth preserving
at a given standard of strength, seems to us to betray a singularly imperfect
appreciation of realities. While it may be true that the Navy exists
primarily to defend our shores from attack, and only secondarily—though
this point has been warmly disputed—to protect the seaborne trade upon
which we as a nation are absolutely dependent for our living, it is obvious
that a naval force too weak to perform the first function would be equally
incapable of fulfilling the second. It is no less clear that security from
air attack, if purchased by developing the air fleet at the expense of the
navy, would avail us little in the event of war with an opponent who could
deploy a superior force at sea. Air raids, on however large a scale, could
affect but a minor section of the populace, but any prolonged interruption
of our food supplies would cause universal distress and must eventually
compel our unconditional submission. We would apologize for dwelling
on these elementary truths were it not that they are so often ignored by
present-day critics of the navy, who seem to think that the whole problem
of national defense is open to solution by the simple expedient of abolishing
sea power and building up a great air force.
Granting the premise that existing circumstances still demand the main-
tenance of a respect-compelling navy, the case for a new naval program is
easy to defend. We have lately been treated to a bewildering mass of
statistics by two schools of thought-the first concerned to show that our
cruiser resources are quite adequate, and would remain so for years to
come, even if no new keel were laid down; the second endeavoring to prove
that the deficiency of cruising ships is already so grave as to demand heroic
measures. The truth, we think, lies somewhere between these two extremes.
Upwards of fifty cruisers are now on the navy list. Of these vessels, a
round dozen are too old and to slow to be of any serious fighting value.
A further twenty, although of later design, were completed during 1915-17
and thus subjected to the excessive stress and strain of war service, which
must have curtailed very considerably their normal span of useful "life.”
The balance consists mainly of small ships of the C and D class, rather
deficient in speed and nautical qualities, but not without a distinct value for


  p. 1969 (#913)                      #

1925]
1969
Professional Notes
fleet duty; four larger and more powerful vessels of the improved Birming-
ham class, and the two E class units, which were specially designed for
great speed. Besides these, we have five County cruisers on the stocks, and
two more of the same type will shortly be laid down for the Australian
Navy. Finally, there is the cruiser-mine layer Adventure. Applying the
new standards of cruiser efficiency set up by the Washington compact-which
has virtually stereotyped the future cruising ship as a vessel of 10,000 tons,
mounting 8-inch guns—it will be found that the empire has, built and build-
ing, eleven ships which belong, more or less, to this major type; three of
the second class, and eleven or twelve suitable for work with the fleet, but
not for independent ocean cruising. This establishment may seem meager
enough in view of the multifarious duties that would fall to it in war time,
including the patrol of trade routes which aggregate a distance of 80,000
miles; and so, indeed, it is. On the other hand, there has not, so far, been
any marked development of the oceanic cruiser type in other navies, and
in ships of this class under construction or completed we have still a decided
margin over all the other powers together. This lead will, however, be
appreciably reduced if the foreign programs now in hand are in each case
carried out in full. The United States alone has eight 10,000-ton ships
projected, Japan has four, France six, and Italy five. With all these powers
our relations are quite friendly, and nowhere is there any sign of a deliberate
challenge to our naval position. This fact notwithstanding, it is of the
first importance that the navy shall be kept strong and efficient, and not
least that branch of it which would be responsible in war for the safety
of our floating commerce. Experience should have taught us that cruisers
are cheaper than commerce raids. So long as we can give a reasonable
degree of protection to our shipping there will be little or no scope for the
exploits of a future Emden or an Alabama. It is unfortunate that the
modern ocean cruiser should be as expensive as a pre-war battleship, but
heavy as the cost of building up a large fleet of these vessels may be, we
are convinced that it will be more than recompensed by the security afforded
to our seaborne trade.
Turning now to the details of the new program, we find that it is
proposed to lay down in the current financial year four A class cruisers-
that is, ships of 10,000 tons. Next year two of the A class and one ship
of the B class are to be started. In subsequent years, from 1927 to 1929
inclusive, the annual quota will be three ships, one being of the A and two
of the B class. The latter, a new design prepared on the basis of 8,000 tons
displacement, is an intermediate type, bridging the rather wide gap between
small fleet cruisers and the big "treaty” ships. It is represented abroad
by the American Omaha, the Japanese Furutaka, and the French Dugilagi-
Trouin, and in our own service by the Emerald. Whether a ship of this
character could engage a "treaty" cruiser without being summarily defeated
is a question for naval men to determine. If it could not, then the design is
open to serious criticism, for it should be an unvarying principle of British
naval policy to build only such vessels as are equal in fighting power to
the strongest of their class being built elsewhere. But, until some details
of the B type cruiser are available, it would be profitless to carry the dis-
cussion further. If the program is completed according to plan, the empire
will possess in 1932 a fleet of sixteen A class cruisers-or twenty if the
Hawkins and her consorts are rated as such—and ten ships of the B class.
Provided that no large additions are made to foreign navies in the mean-
while, this force of thirty ocean cruisers should be adequate. The cir-
cumstances in which the plan was adopted by the Cabinet leave no doubt
that the Admiralty regards it as the minimum commensurate with Imperial
needs. It is a relief to find some provision being made for the methodical
replacement of destroyers and submarines, the building of which has been
practically in abeyance for years past. We have fewer patrol submarines
today than the United States or Japan, and will soon be outdistanced by


  p. 1970 (#914)                      #

1970
Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
France. Our destroyers are mostly of old design, very few of them compar-
ing favorably with the latest foreign productions. Twenty-seven destroyers
are to be laid down in the three years beginning 1927-28. The replacement
of submarines is to start next year with a batch of six O type boats, pre-
sumably similar to the 0-1, of 1,480 tons, which is now under construction
at Chatham. Each year thereafter for the next three years six additional
submarines will be laid down, but one of the group projected for 1929-30
is to be of the fleet type. In that year, also, a new aircraft carrier is to be
begun. Other material provided for in the five-year building plan com-
prises five gunboats, four motor launches, two submarine depot ships, one
net layer, a repair ship, and a floating dock. The total cost, estimated at
£58,000,000, is likely to extend over a period of eight years.
The program as it stands is clearly a compromise between the rival
claims of naval defense and national economy. Its acceptance by the Board
of Admiralty can only mean that the supreme naval authorities consider
it adequate. Otherwise they could scarcely have remained in office. The
community will benefit directly by the increased activity in numberless
trades affected by naval shipbuilding and the consequent mitigation of un-
employment. At least 70 per cent of the total sum involved will be ex-
pended in wages; nor must the political effect of the program be ignored.
It signifies to the world at large that Great Britain lacks neither the means
nor the resolution to uphold that sea power which is not only essential
to her national being, but is a proved bulwark of peace.
British Naval Plans Criticized at Home
By Hector C. Bywater, Baltimore Sun, 13 August, 1925.— Newspaper com-
ment on the government's cruiser program is, on the whole, unfriendly.
Excepting the Morning Post, which quaintly hails it as a naval triumph
comparable to the Battle of Jutland, the tone of ministerial organs is one
of tepid approval, qualified by outspoken misgivings as to how the taxpayer
will take this latest addition to his already tremendous burden.
By opposition papers the program is denounced with a vehemence which
obviously does not spring from party motives alone. Many stanch Unionists,
holding this to be a singularly unfortunate moment at which to resume war-
ship construction on a large scale, confess their disappointment with the
Prime Minister for yielding to Admiralty pressure.
It is the almost universal opinion that the government has committed a
blunder of the first magnitude, for which it will pay dearly. The adoption
of a naval scheme which involves a capital outlay of $290,000,000 at a
period of acute economic crisis could only be justified, it is argued, by some
grave and pressing menace to the national safety, yet even members of the
government are compelled to own that no such menace is in sight.
From the purely naval viewpoint there is much to be said for the program.
Though the British cruiser fleet looks formidable on paper, it consists in the
main of material which the progress of design has rendered obsolete. As
the First Lord of the Admiralty told Parliament yesterday, if no new ships
were begun this year the British Empire would have seven cruisers of post-
war design, the United States eighteen, Japan twenty-one and France nine.
Four years hence the position with regard to cruisers armed with 8-in. guns
would be: British Empire seven, United States eight, Japan eight, and
France six. At to speed of ships exceeding 30 knots, the empire would
have seven, the United States eighteen, Japan twenty-five, and France nine.
These figures are to some extent arbitrary, ignoring as they do four
British ships (Raleigh class) which mount a battery of seven 77/2-in. guns,
and because they accept the trial speeds of American and Japanese ships as
the actual sea speeds. The fact that several new American cruisers are to
have their machinery modified and that more than one Japanese cruiser has


  p. 1971 (#915)                      #

1925)
1971
Professional Notes
broken down when driven at maximum speed suggests that performance on
trial is not always a sure guide to performance in service.
But, on the part of the general public there is a growing and healthy
tendency to examine naval problems in a broader light than that of mere
technique. The old ton-and-gun system of measurement is discredited.
Scarcely anyone looks twice at comparisons of British and American cruiser
strength because scarcely anyone believes in the possibility of war with
America, and, unless war is envisaged as a possible contingency, compari-
sons of armed strength lack reality.
There remain only Japan and France as potential foes, but, to the man in
the street Japan is little more than a geographical expression. You cannot
make his flesh creep by dilating on the military power of a country half a
world away. This generation was bred in the tradition that only from the
continent of Europe is any serious challenge to British sea power to be
apprehended.
In my own youth the navy was organized for the specific purpose of
dealing with a coalition of the French and Russian fleets-the original touch-
stone of the two-power standard-but, only in the present century the naval
outlook had changed completely. Russian sea power was destroyed in the
war with Japan, while the conclusion of the entente cordiale removed
France from the list of prospective enemies. From that time forward the
one naval pre-occupation of this country was to keep an ample margin of
supremacy over the German fleet.
Now that the German fleet has been swept from the board, the British
Navy has no serious rival in European waters.
Rightly or wrongly, the public here does not regard French naval activity
with any alarm, despite the somewhat formidable number of submarines
which are constructing across the channel. It is infinitely more concerned
about the growth of French air power. A shipbuilding program aimed
against France would find no popular support. It follows, therefore, that
British naval policy today lacks a definite objective, at least so far as the
warding off of any tangible menace is in question.
Hence, the widespread opposition to the Admiralty's cruiser program.
Fears are expressed that, by inaugurating a new era of competitive ship-
building, it may undo the good work of the Washington Conference. There
is reason to fear that other powers may consider it expedient to build
more ships in order to preserve the status quo.
Already the French press is clamoring for an expansion of the 1922 navy
law, and rumors of a new Japanese program persist in the face of denials
from Tokio. Nor can the probability of a renewed naval agitation in
America be overlooked.
In these circumstances it is natural that the idea of a conference for the
further restriction of sea armaments should be gaining ground. Members
of Parliament are advocating this course, and journals of every political
complexion are taking it up. A resolution passed by the League of Nations
Union implores the government to take the initiative in summoning a con-
ference, "preferably through the League of Nations," with a view of avert-
ing an "inevitable competition in armaments among the naval powers,
which unless checked, will be a serious menace to peace.” Some news-
papers hold that Japan would be more likely to cooperate if the invitation
came from London instead of Washington.
Paris dispatches indicate that France no longer cherishes the ambitious
plans of submarine development which wrecked every attempt to ration
auxiliary craft at the first conference. It is further pointed out that since
the limitation of battleships probably would have failed but that America
had something substantial to bargain with the obvious policy for Great
Britain now is to announce her readiness to scrap this new building scheme,


  p. 1972 (#916)                      #

1972
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
provided the other powers will agree to a fixed ratio of strength in cruisers
and other auxiliaries.
One thing is certain: If President Coolidge feels disposed to revive his
plan for a new naval conference, he may count on the whole-hearted support
of British public opinion. The government itself would welcome it as a
means of escape from an embarrassing situation while the nation at large
would acclaim any action that promised to avert a new race in naval arma-
ments, with all the evil consequences, fiscal and political, to which it must
give rise.
The Royal Dockyards
The Engineer, 14 August, 1925.--In return for the government's approval
of the shipbuilding program, the Admiralty has pledged itself to effect such
economies in other branches of the naval administration as will obviate the
necessity of a supplementary vote for new construction during the current
financial year. How these economies are to be effected has not yet been
made public. There is, no doubt, some scope for retrenchment within the
Admiralty office itself, the cost of which far exceeds the pre-war figure,
in spite of the much smaller navy we are now maintaining, but, while a
cut in administration expenses would be welcomed for the principle of the
thing, the largest sum likely to be saved in this way would bear an insig-
nificant relation to the impending bill for new construction. A more promis-
ing expedient, which the Admiralty is understood to favor, is the closing
down of certain of the Royal Dockyards at home which have become
superfluous: namely, Chatham, Sheerness, and Pembroke. Owing to its
position in an area which has ceased to be strategically important, the
dockyard at Rosyth is also of limited utility, but since it is at present
the only government yard in the country where H.M.S. Hood and other
large bulged ships can be docked, that establishment is in no immediate
danger of being discarded. The other yards referred to have no important
docking facilities. Sheerness, which is only a repairing base for small
craft, might well be dispensed with. Chatham is of more importance; it
has specialized for years past in submarine construction and has a fairly
up-to-date plant for the building of larger vessels, the cruiser Kent being
now on the stocks there; but Chatham, like Sheerness, has become super-
fluous. A cogent objection to the retention of these two establishments is
their vulnerability to aerial attack, though that objection might be said
to apply to Portsmouth as well, and even to Devonport. Pembroke has a
reputation for excellence of workmanship, some of the finest cruisers of the
pre-war navy having been built at that yard. Its plant was partly modern-
ized during the war, and is now, we believe, fully competent to undertake
the building of cruisers of the latest type; but Pembroke is not con-
veniently placed for the needs of the present-day feet, and in recent years it
has had a very limited amount of work in hand.
The estimated expenditure this year on the yards at Chatham, Sheerness,
and Pembroke is £1,063,968. It does not by any means follow, however,
that this sum would be saved to the country if the three yards were closed.
Such action would involve the dismissal of many thousands of workers,
skilled and unskilled, the greater number of whom would at once proceed,
and of necessity, to draw unemployment pay. Nor would that be all. The
closing of any dockyard must be disastrous to the locality in which it is
situated, inflicting hardship on numberless people who are not directly con-
nected with the establishment, but whose livelihood depends, nevertheless,
upon its existence and prosperity. Residents of the dockyard towns know
only too well the widespread distress that resulted after the war, when the
discharge of surplus personnel began on a large scale. Though the naval
budget might show a considerable saving if the redundant dockyards were


  p. 1973 (#917)                      #

1925]
1973
Professional Notes
closed, we fear that the nation as a whole would lose more than it gained,
In this period of economic stress it is vital that broader issues than mere
departmental convenience should be duly weighed before decision is reached.
So far as the navy is concerned, its requirements could probably be met by
Portsmouth and Devonport alone. That much is admitted by a service
journal which has always upheld the interests of the dockyards, but which,
in its latest issue, frankly owns that Chatham, Sheerness, and Pembroke
are “not really necessary;" and yet, for the reasons outlined above, we
doubt whether the government will take the drastic step of closing them.
The problem of the smaller dockyards is, in truth, a thorny one, not to be
solved by the rough-and-ready measures that appear to the zealot for econ-
omy. The question of whether they are essential for the navy, though
certainly an important issue, is not the only one to be considered. Judged
by that test, none of the small yards could hope to survive. The work
they are now doing could be performed with equal efficiency and probably
at a reduced cost by the private shipyards. To the best of our knowledge
it has never been claimed that the royal yards can build or repair ships
more cheaply than independent establishments. The brief post-war experi-
ment of constructing merchant vessels in the dockyards was a signal failure
from the financial point of view. It may be urged, however, and with
justice that the prime function of a state yard is the repair and maintenance
of the King's ships, their construction being quite a secondary matter.
But, even on this basis, it would be difficult to present a convincing case
for retaining such yards as those at Pembroke, Chatham, and Sheerness.
The fleet of today is very much smaller than the fleet of 1914, nor is there
any prospect of a substantial increase in its dimensions within the dis-
cernible future. Over a long period of time our battle fleet is restricted by
treaty to a certain number of ships. Ten years hence we shall have only
sixteen capital ships all told, and from 1936 to 1942, presuming the Wash-
ington compact to remain in force so long, only fifteen ships. Considera-
tions of expense will effectively prevent any corresponding expansion
of the non-capital fleet. With every new cruiser costing £2,000,000, every
destroyer £250,000, and every submarine £400,000—vide an answer returned
in the House of Commons last week—there will be no incentive to build
above the irreducible minimum in any one of these types. It is therefore
extremely probable that the present numerical strength of the navy, small
though it be, will tend rather to diminish than increase. Now, the dock-
yards we possess today were created and organized to meet the needs of
a Aleet very much larger than that which remains to us, and of a fleet,
moreover, which was designed in the first place to operate in the Narrow
Seas. Barring some wholly unforeseen development in international
politics, the contingency of a future war in Europe, in which Great Britain
would be a belligerent, is happily remote. The importance attached to the
new Singapore base, together with the systematic building up of oil fuel
stations along the main oceanic routes, points unmistakably to an Ad-
miralty conviction that the next war, if it does materialize, will be fought
in some zone thousands of miles from home waters. In the event of such
a conflict, the first business of the home dockyards would be to repair
and fit out ships destined for the front. That much accomplished, there
would be little left for them to do, since the task of maintaining and re-
plenishing ships in the war zone would devolve on such dockyards as were
suitably placed for the purpose. The ability of our feet to keep the seas
would depend chiefly on the base facilities available at Singapore, Trin-
comali, Sydney, and Malta. Pursuing this line of argument to its logical
extreme, we reach the conclusion that the money now spent on all save the
most necessary establishments at home should forwith be diverted to the
improvement of our naval bases oversea. That, we believe, is the Ad-


  p. 1974 (#918)                      #

1974
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
miralty's view, albeit for the reasons explained it may not be practicable to
give it effect in the immediate future.
For the present, so it seems to us, the problem of our superfluous dock-
yards does not lend itself to any satisfactory solution. To close them
down would be to aggravate unemployment in a branch of industry which
suffers more than most from the prevailing depression. To keep them open
is to impose a charge on the state for which there is no adequate return,
yet the second alternative is probably the lesser evil. Sooner or later there
must be a reversion to healthier economic conditions, with a consequent
reduction in the number of unemployed. When that occurs a demand will
arise for workers in every trade, including shipbuilding and ship repairing,
and an opportunity may thus be given of absorbing into private industry
part of the thousands of men for whom work is now literally being “made"
in the smaller dockyards. This will be the proper moment at which to close
the redundant establishments. We can only trust that the government then
in office will have sufficient resolution to take such a course, regardless
of the political pressure brought to bear by the small but influential group
of "dockyard members," to whose joint effort is due, in no small part, the
continued maintenance at heavy expense of naval establishments which con-
tribute nothing to our naval strength.
Maintaining the Fleet
The Army, Navy and Air Force Gazette, 8 August, 1925.—Shorn of its
political significance and of the interchanges of party warfare, last week's
naval debate brought out clearly one vital fact, that this country is de-
termined to maintain the navy up to a one-power standard, that its strength,
in other words, shall not be allowed to deteriorate below that of any other
nation. It would have been well had someone challenged the opposition
parties on this issue. If they accept this principle, much of their criticism
is automatically silenced. The rebuilding of the feet, as Mr. Churchill
truly said, is a charge that must fall upon any government or any board
of admiralty in one form or another. Refusing to be led away by high-
sounding phrases such as that about our standard of naval strength being in
strict adherence to some promise expressed in the covenant of the League
of Nations—that our defense forces should be reduced to the minimum con-
sistent with national safety—the governments have faced the position fairly
and squarely, and their decision does them credit. That they have earnestly
striven to keep expenditure down to the lowest possible limit is shown by
the fact that their five-year program will give us, with the ships already
in hand, twenty-three cruisers. The Amery program of two years ago
would have provided thirty-three at a cost of from 15,000,000 to 20,000,000
more. The changed situation abroad justifies this retrenchment, and in-
ternational agreement between the powers may render still further economies
possible later on.
In the meantime, what the Admiralty critics entirely fail to see is that
it is the cabinet which determines policy. It is the government which says
what our fleet shall be maintained for. Having thus a certain responsibility
placed upon them, it is the board which says what forces are necessary
to discharge that responsibility. The lucid statement of Mr. Churchill as
to the negotiations which led up to the new program renders extremely
foolish the talk about insubordinate Admirals, to which even Lloyd George
found it desirable to lend himself. On one point at least he is quite mis-
taken--that for admirals to stand by their program is quite a modern
innovation, and that the old admirals never put forward such a claim. The
reverse is the case, as many examples could prove, one of the best known
being when the board under Lord Spencer, which included Admirals
Richards, Kerr, and Fisher, stood to their program and wrecked Mr.
Gladstone's last ministry. The events of the last few weeks have merely
followed well-established precedent.


  p. 1975 (#919)                      #

1925]
1975
Professional Notes
Another point in which the critics were ill-in formed was as to the need
for cruisers in peace-time. It was suggested that as no great war is likely
for ten years-a pure speculation which it suits many people to accept as
an accomplished fact-therefore no ships need be built until it is upon us.
A closer examination of events since the Armistice would show the manifold
uses of cruisers in normal times. China, Mexico, Honduras, Tangier,
Chanak, and a host of other places have all been glad of the presence of a
British cruiser, and the value to the empire of the policing of the seas which
the navy performs year in and year out is incalculable. It promotes trade,
empire fellowship, and international good will. More than the battleship,
the cruiser is one of the principal agents of this work, and all friends of
the navy will rejoice that twenty-three of the war-built vessels, many of
them but fragile supertorpedo craft, are now to be replaced by up-to-date
ships, better designed and equipped for service in the outer oceans.
FRANCE
New French Command in Mediterranean
The Naval and Military Record, 5 August, 1925.-Admiral Dumesnil, on
being replaced by Admiral Violette, in the command of the Toulon squadron,
will assume the responsible duties of Inspecteur Genéral des forces maritimes
de la Mediterranee, a new post giving him rights of supervision over the
shore defenses and seagoing formations of Toulon, Corsica, Bizerta, Algiers,
and Oran, without mentioning the aerial stations of St. Raphael, Cuers,
and the Syrian naval stations. This command is by far the most important
in the French naval service, and for such comprehensive functions it is
agreed Admiral Dumesnil is the right man in the right place. Words are
unnecessary to praise a chief who showed in action under extremely critical
circumstances what he was worth. The 4,700-ton croisseur-cuirassé
Latouche-Tréville, earmarked for condemnation in July, 1914; and so worn
out that she was crawling home at seven knots, Commandant Dumesnil
turned into the most efficient and daring fighter in the Dardanelles contest,
and her exploits he related in his well-known book, Souvenirs de Guerre
d'un Vieux Croiseur. M. Dumesnil's exceptionally brilliant career is due
solely to his tried merit, and the thing is unusual enough in the Marine
Républicaine. He has brought Pescadre de combat to a high degree of
efficiency, employing in tactics and strategy and in training his commanders
that directness of purpose and quick decision that are the marks of great
chiefs. Eloquence, verbiage, literary attainments, witty but negative criticism,
and anything that is not action and impedes action he despised and promptly
brushed aside in the ordinary discharge of fleet duties and in dealing with his
commanders. In this respect his influence has been great on the formation
of many promising commanders.
This placing of France's Mediterranean sea power under the supervision
of so experienced and active an admiral, who for the past two years has
lived mostly at sea, all the problems of the command of the Mediterranean,
will have the effect of benefitting France's position in waters which she must
be assured of commanding in wartime under penalty of losing her African
empire and her rank as a great nation. The massing of the supreme British
Armada in the Middle Sea, the steady increase of the Italian fleet, that
excels the French in the matter of torpedo and aerial flotillas, the general
unrest in the Moslem world, and signs of brewing strife in Balkan and
Turkish quarters are so many faits nouveaus that call for an immediate
and substantial strengthening of the inadequately-equipped naval and aerial
bases in Tunisia and Corsica.
Admiral Docteux (fifty-seven years of age), on relinquishing the com-
mand of the Channel Division and flotillas, which he trained remarkably,


  p. 1976 (#920)                      #

1976
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
will assume the functions of Director du Personnel Militaire at the Paris
Admiralty. Rear Admiral Brigson (fifty-seven years of age) becomes
chief of the Defense Department of the important Toulon port militaire,
he previously commanded a battle division. There are at the present
moment only thirty-four Aag officers on the active list (instead of seventy-
five, and of these orly seven are employed at sea, which is truly a small
proportion and not favorable to efficiency. Too many fine men of action
with gold stars on their sleeves are pining, fretting, and rusting in bureau-
cratic berths on the plancher des vaches, anxious for any chance of getting
out to sea, the home of true marines. The commissioning within the next
few months of three 8,000-ton cruisers, six 2,400-ton destroyers, and twelve
1,500-ton torpilleurs d'escadre, without mentioning submarines, will supply
the means of satisfying the longings for sea of the three or four more flag
officers. Rear Admiral Herr (fifty-two years of age), a distinguished
officer and fervent believer in speed and torpedoes, is expected to take the
command of the six Chacals (2,400 tons, five 5.1-in. guns, six torpedo
tubes, and 36 knots), that would form one ultra-fast patrolling and scouting
flotilla to be placed at the disposal of, the commander-in-chief at Toulon,
but with Bizerta as ordinary headquarters. Destroyers of 1,500 tons
(Simoun type) would be used as florilla leaders to the fifty-odd torpilleurs
d'escadre in commission, duties they could well perform, since they, too,
carry the new 5.1-inch caliber and the 550 mil. type of torpedoes, and will
do 34 knots on trials. They are a match for most Italian destroyers or
Aotilla leaders.
The six 36-knot Chacals, if true to expectations, would have nothing to
fear from any Mediterranean cruiser, and, besides, they could form an
escadre rapide with the three 35-knot Duguay-Trouins although expert
opinion is hostile to the closing up of these fine cruisers, well suited to
colonial defense, in the narrow Mediterranean waters. The Tigre (Chantiers
de Bretagne) has carried out promising preliminary trials in the Atlantic;
her turbine de croisière, despite the very small place it occupies on board.
gave easily 20 knots (with over 6,000 h.p.), instead of 18, and the Rateau
turbines worked satisfactorily, as usual, and leave no doubt as to the contract
figures being excecded by a good margin in the official trials to take place
shortly. The five boilers produced more steam than bargained for, and
justified the Admiralty decision to fit only four boilers in the three 2,650-
ton contretorpilleurs just ordered. The behavior of the Tigre in the choppy
waters of the Bay of Biscay was good, and life on board was comfortable,
although ito men and petty officers are somewhat crowded in two spacious
living quarters in the fore part of the ship, just as in English destroyers
officers are lodged at the extreme after part of the ship in comfortable and
relatively roomy quarters, very light and pleasant.
In several respects, habitability on board the Chacals and Tigre marks a
progress on anything yet achieved in that line in the French Navy. Sanitary
arrangements are practical, and thoroughly hygienic; lavatories and bathing
quarters are roomy and supplied with hot and cold water, and ventilation
in living rooms and motor quarters has been the object of special attention.
A thirty-six cubic-meter refrigerating room under the bows contains meat
and other articles of diet for three months, and the supply of drinking
water is ample. In the matter of food and other stores these 2,400-ton
so-called destroyers have been endowed with the endurance of cruisers, and
would be available for maintaining safe communications with colonies.
There are on decks five different kitchens of up-to-date practical design,
besides a bakery, producing 330 lb. of bread per day. On the initiative
of Commandant Brohan, the able commander of the Chacal, who believes
(with the first American admiral, Paul Jones) that contentment is the soul
of efficiency, cooperative canteens have been added to the list of board


  p. 1977 (#921)                      #

1925)
1977
Professional Notes
comforts that will provide "matelots” with all "extras" they may wish for,
which is a proof that Frenchmen, just like Englishmen, prefer fighting on a
full stomach.
Progress of Aeronautics in France
Bulletin of "French Bureau of Information," New York City, 12 August,
1925.-Commercial aviation has made considerable progress in France since
the war. At the beginning of the present year there were no less than
thirty-seven aerial lines running on regular schedules.
The activity of the Transports Aériens Company, at first connected with
the War Office, made possible the creation of a state secretaryship for
aeronautics. The different branches of aeronautics, however, have not been
united yet, and the four sections of aviation, military, naval, colonial, and
commercial, are still connected with four different ministries, war, navy,
colonies, and aeronautics. A connection between them is established, but
rather imperfectly, through three central services under the control of the
State Under-Secretary for Aeronautics: Technical Service of Aeronautics,
Manufacturing Service, National Office of Meteorology. Nevertheless, air-
plane manufacturers being thus encouraged and advised, and production
being to a certain extent supervised, the output is more regular and the
aeronautical industry is now working on a safer basis.
Aerodromes and emergency stations with telephones and repair shops
have been built.. Landing places are of three kinds, emergency landing
grounds, stations, and aerial ports.
An emergency landing ground usually covers about twenty-five hectares
(about 62/2 acres) and has a watchman with his residence on the spot.
Airmen find there a telephone, the necessary equipment for summary repair
work, and also a supply of gasoline and oil.
A station has a better equipped repair shop, a more important supply of
gas and oil, shelters, and a wireless station. Stations close to the borders
have a custom office besides.
An aerial port is nothing else than a station, but its equipment is more
complete and the landing ground is much larger.
At the present time, there are in France and in North Africa, one main
port, two secondary ports, nineteen stations, twenty-three emergency land-
ing grounds, seven bases and one seaplane port.
A scientific coordination of all aviation services and also improvements
in industrial methods have given very good results. Aerial transportation
is now no less secure, and just as regular, as any other. The percentage
of punctuality for the whole year is as high as 98 per cent. Accidents are
less frequent. In 1922, twenty accidents causing loss of human life occurred,
while the distance covered was 3,500,000 kilometers. In 1923, there were
twelve accidents for a distance of 3,900,000 kilometers, which represents
one person killed for a Aight eight times around the world.
The coefficient of security for 1924 is three times higher than in the
preceding year. Such splendid records are a sure proof that French air
machines are more and more reliable, that the aerial service is methodically
organized, while the professional ability of pilots is an additional guarantee
of security.
During the year 1924, French aviation made new records and audacious
fights, among which the following are particularly remarkable. Captain
Pelletier-Doisy made the memorable flight Paris-Hanoi-Peking-Tokyo;
Paris-Shanghai (16,450 kilometers--or about 10,220 miles, in ninety hours
of actual Aight, with fourteen stops; Paris-Tokyo (21,000 kilometers--or
about 13,000 miles) in 122 hours of actual flight, with twenty stops. From
Paris to Shanghai the flight was made with the same planes, the same


  p. 1978 (#922)                      #

1978
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
motor (not one part being replaced) the same pilot and one mechanic. It
is one of the most remarkable achievements in aeronautics.
In 1925, Captains Lemaitre and Arrachard made a non-stop flight of
3.400 kilometers or about 2,100 miles from Etampes (France) to Villa
Cisnéros (750 kilometers or about 465 miles from Dakar, Africa). This
non-stop flight is the official world record.
Such records speak well for France's airplane industry, which turns out
machines remarkable for their fine workmanship and their sturdiness. Im-
provements in the motors and a considerable increase in power also are
factors of 110 small importance. A few figures given here below sum up
the technical progress made since the war.
1919
1924
Power of motors ................ 300 H.P. 480 to 500 H.P.
Duration of flight .............. 50 hours 200 hours (commercial)
Average speed
.......kilometers per 600 hours (maximum)
hour 180 to 220 kilometers per
110 to 130
hour
1923
Non-stop flight (commercial) .... 310 miles
1924
373
A model aerial line is now being created and it may be taken for granted
that the work will be performed with the most painstaking care. France
already possesses at Le Bourget, which is the aerial port of Paris, one of
the best equipped aerial ports in the world. Its equipment includes a large
building in which are located offices for the management, a waiting roon
for passengers, a reading room, post office, an exchange office, and so forth.
Lately, a restaurant and custom offices have been established. Besides, and
in order to make sure of the physical fitness of pilots, an office for physio-
logical tests and studies has been created at Le Bourget.
It is obvious that landing stations on aerial lines cannot have as im-
portant an equipment as aerial ports. However, some landing grounds and
aerial depots are being created close to some big cities on convenient spots :
for instance, after having established the aerial port of Marignano, the city
of Marseilles, at the suggestion and under the supervision of its chamber of
commerce, is studying plans for the organization of commercial aviation on
a larger scale.
At the present time, the five state subsidized companies for aerial trans-
portation are trying to establish connections between Paris and the main
capitals of the world, and to organize a Mediterranean aerial system so
as to connect France with the Near-East and South America.
The Société Air Union takes care of the traffic on the line Paris-London.
The Société Générale de Transports Aériens operates the line Paris-Brussels-
Amsterdam.
Airplanes of the Compagnie Franco-Roumaine make the run Paris-
Prague-Warsaw and Paris-Prague-Constantinople.
Seaplanes of the Aero-Navale connect Antibes, France, with Ajaccio,
Corsica, and will shortly make the connection with Bizerte, Tunis.
Airplanes of the Compagnie Générale d'Entreprises Aéronautiques
(Latécoère lines) fly from Toulouse to Casablanca stop at Perpignan from
where there is an aerial connection with Marseilles and again Casablanca.
Morocco.
There are also the lines Alicante-Oran and Casablanca-Oran.


  p. 1979 (#923)                      #

1925]
1979
Professional Notes
From 1920 to 1925, the results of the aerial lines operation have shown a
steady increase:
Years
Trips Distance Passengers Freight Alail
1920 ........... 2,386 853,959 1,771 77,038 15,660
1921 ....
2,353,455 10,619 261,890 34,840
1922 .......... 7,361 2,798,366
9,502 556,370
167,680
1923 ........... 9,720 3,389,195 11,638 969,001 328,440
1924 ...........11,563 3,647,826 16,729 877,591 532,777
These figures are sufficient to demonstrate the progress made by French
aviation. We purposely refrain from mentioning in this brief study, the
prospects now envisaged and the steps taken for their realization.
The French Customs' service has just made public the figures concerning
France's foreign trade during the first six months of 1925. In these
statistics the amount of imports and exports for June, as compared with
the preceding month, appears as follows:
Imports:
May, 1925
June, 1925
(in 1,000 francs)
Foodstuffs
561,220
642,584
Raw material for industry ........ 1,976,822
1,932,214
Manufactured articles
430,630
416,445
Totals
........2,968,672
2,991,243
Exports:
Foodstuffs
Raw material for industry ........
Manufactured articles .......
Parcel posts .......
239,071
956,030
2,241,885
203,201
252,754
933,849
2,157,094
162,837
Totals
3,640,187
3,506,534
The above figures show that in June, 1925, the value of imports was
higher by 23,000,000 francs than in May. A decrease in value of 134,000,000
francs is recorded for exports.
Concerning imports, the increase affects only foodstuffs (81,364,000
francs). Purchase of raw material and manufactured articles abroad show
a slight decrease, 44,000,000 and 14,000,000 francs, respectively, as compared
with the May figures.
Concerning exports, the decrease affects raw material (24,000,000 francs),
manufactured articles (84,000,000 francs), and parcel post (40,000,000
francs); exports of foodstuffs only show a slight increase of nearly
14,000,000 francs.
The visible trade balance for June, 1925, thus shows an excess of exports
amounting to 515,000,000 francs as against 071,500,000 francs in May, 1925;
in June, 1924, imports were in excess of 300,000,000 francs over exports.
The following table gives the weights (in metric tons) of imported and
exported merchandise for May and June, 1925:
Imports:
Foodstuffs ........
.........
Raw material for industry ........
Manuiactured articles
May, 1925
318,861
3.392,377
108,215
June, 1925
323,658
3,305,604
101,169
Totals
· 3,819,453
3,730,431.


  p. 1980 (#924)                      #

1980
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Trade Expansion
Engineering, 31 July, 1925.--Since the restitution of Lorraine the iron and
steel production of France has increased to 11,000,000 tons a year, and the
home consumption is about 4,500,000 tons, thereby leaving a huge surplus
output, which must be disposed of in foreign markets. Before Lorraine was
restored to France, the total quantity produced at the mills and forges was
absorbed by Germany, but until a treaty of commerce between the two
countries is signed, that market is practically closed to Lorraine firms.
Under the arrangements which will come into operation on the signing of
a treaty Germany will allow the free importation of 800,000 tons of
iron and steel from the Saar, and producers in that district have undertaken
to indemnify partially the Lorraine mill and forge owners by paying them
a certain sum per ton of iron and steel exported to Germany as a rebate
upon the duties which have to be paid on the Lorraine products. In this
way it is hoped that the Lorraine industry will be able to export an
appreciable quantity of iron and steel to Germany under favorable conditions.
There will, however, still remain a large surplus, which will have to be
disposed of by other means. The French Government has been investigating
the situation very closely with iron and steel firms, and the result is the
inauguration of a new policy which arises out of the special requirements
of Italy in raw material. On account of the considerable development of
the metallurgical trades in Italy, that country has been taking from France
all the scrap iron available. Last year the total quantity amounted to
400,000 tons. The French Government recently decided to restrict the
exports of scrap iron, and an arrangement has been entered into with the
Italian Government whereby the quantity of scrap iron exported to Italy
will depend upon the Italian purchases of French rolled iron and steel. For
every 120,000 tons of scrap iron Italy will have to take 15,000 tons of rolled
iron and steel. Should Italy purchase more than that amount of manu-
factured material, it may take one and one-quarter tons of scrap iron for
every ton of rolled steel. When the Italian purchases of rolled material
exceed 90,000 tons, scrap can be supplied at the rate of one ton for every
ton of rolled iron and steel until the total reaches 150,000 tons, when the
amount of scrap iron authorized to be exported to Italy will be one ton to
every two tons of rolled steel. At the same time it is hoped to arrange for
the free importation into Italy of French rolled iron for building purposes
in return for the suppression of the proposed export duty on scrap iron.
This arrangement has not yet come into force, but it is giving the greatest
satisfaction to French mill and forge owners, who see in the ingenious
method of forcing the hands of foreign buyers a safe way of disposing of
their surplus production of rolled iron and steel.
French Mine Laying Submarine Boats
Engineering, 14 August, 1925.—The mine-laying submarine boat Pierre-
Chailley, of the French Navy, has cost slightly over 7,000,000 francs. Her
length is 70 m. (229 ft. 8 in.); her surface displacement is 900 tons, and her
displacement immersed, 1,200 tons. For laying when immersed the boat
carries 64 mines, weighing 508 kg. (10 cwt.) each, placed in 32 cells amid-
ships between the two hulls, 16 on each side. The armament consists of
two torpedo-launching tubes and one 10-cm. (3.937-in.) gun. The boat is
propelled by two engines of 900 h.p. each. The surface speed is 14 knots,
and the radius of action close upon 3,000 miles. The Moniteur de la Flotte,
which gives these figures refers also to the Mauricc-Caillot, another French
mine-laying submarine boat, which has recently completed in the Mediter-
ranean an endurance test of fifty days' duration. Her surface speed is 16.2
knots, the speed immersed being 10.4 knots. The Maurice-Caillot has a dis-


  p. 1981 (#925)                      #

19251
1981
Professional Notes
placement of 932 tons on the surface, a radius of action of 3,150 miles at
II knots, and when immersed the boat can cover 112 miles at 5 knots. The
armament consists of six torpedo-launching tubes and one 75-mm. (2.953 in.)
gun. The boat carries for laying when immersed 27 mines, arranged at
the upper part, above the inner hull and ballast, disposed in three lines
of 9 mines each. The mines are so placed that the axis of the anchoring
weight is horizontal, the float being toward the bow of the submarine; the
mines rest on six friction rollers on their frame, on two rails made of angle
bars fixed to the hull. An endless chain passes under each line of mines
and serves to move the mines aft for laying. In travelling aft on the guide
rails the mines are ultimately inclined 60° to the horizontal previous to
their release, the required motion being given by two electric motors whichi
act by gearing on the three lines. The motors are designed to lay the mines
of one line at the rate of one every twelve seconds, and a speed of 5 knots
for the boat; this corresponds to an interval of 30 m. (98 ft.) between
each two mines laid. The three sets of mines, or any two of them, can be
laid simultaneously, when the mines are suitably spaced apart, or any single
line can be laid separately. The movement of the mines to the stern and the
action of laying have no appreciable affect upon the trim of the boat.
ITALY
The Economic Situation in Italy
Engineering, 14 August, 1925.—The two economic factors chiefly re-
sponsible for Italy's increasing commercial and industrial prosperity are,
firstly, the country's wealth in water power, which, in all probability, will
eventually render her industries largely independent of coal supplies; and,
secondly, the satisfactory way in which she has managed to settle, tempo-
rarily, if not finally, her labor troubles. These two questions are among
those alluded to in a report recently issued by the Department of Overseas
Trade. This report shows that down to December 31, 1923, as many as
4,129 concessions for the exploitation of water power had been granted by
the authorities, the estimated horsepower available reaching the total of
3,430,209. Furthermore, quite 60 per cent of the equipment was completed
and in full working order by the date above mentioned. The progress being
made in the development of the country's hydro-electric resources is illus-
trated by the fact that twenty-four of the generating stations now in the
course of construction will generate 2,209,000,000 kilowatt-hours per year,
while a further number of fifty-six stations, capable of generating
3.908,000,000 kilowatt-hours, is being planned. One of the most recent of
these hydro-electric installations, the Tirso plant in Sardinia, which was
described in Engineering, vol cxviii, page 632, was completed in 1923, and
was formally opened by the King in April, 1924.
The linking up of power stations situated in different parts of the country
forms a noteworthy feature of Italian hydro-electric installations. In mid-
winter, when the water derived from the melting snows in the Alpine
regions is at a minimum, the rainfall on the slopes of Appenine Range is at
a maximum ; at other seasons conditions have, therefore, been interconnected
with plants located in the Appenines, the two sources of power thus comple-
menting one another whenever necessary. By this means a continuous
supply of electrical energy is assured in industrial districts at all seasons.
This coordination scheme is gradually being made more complete, and the
connecting up of many of the remaining stations is being pushed forward.
The coal and coke imported into Italy amounted to over 11,000,000 metric
tons in 1924, as compared with 9,000,000 tons in 1923, and 10,000,000 tons in
1912. In view of the increasing utilization of the water power resources
of the country, it is somewhat surprising to find that the consumption of


  p. 1982 (#926)                      #

1982
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
coal in 1924 is greater than was the case in pre-war days. This indicates
that, not only is an important revival taking place in Italian industry, but
also that developments have arisen in many new directions. Increased hydro-
electric power facilities have created new industries for which coal is a
necessity. On the other hand, the opinion has been expressed that although
the quantity of coal imported is likely to be maintained at the present level
for a number of years to come, and may indeed increase still further, the
time will eventually come when the available water power has been harnessed
to the fullest extent, and the need for solid fuel will diminish. In 1912 the
percentage of British coal imported amounted to 86 per cent of the total :
in 1923 this figure had fallen to 71 per cent, and in 1924 a further fall to
52 per cent was registered. This state of affairs is chiefly due to the im-
portation of German coal on reparation account (amounting, in 1924, to
over 3,500,000 tons). On the other hand, quantities received from Germany,
other than reparation coal, and from the United States are steadily increasing.
As has been indicated above, one of the most potent of the factors con-
tributing to the improved economic situation of Italy, is the lack of strikes.
In 1919, nearly 19,000,000 working days were lost to the nation owing to
labor troubles; in 1923, the number of days so lost amounted to only 295,929.
Again, unemployment, although subject to seasonal influences, has steadily
fallen since February, 1922, when there were 600,000 unemployed persons,
the maximum for the post-war period. The number of unemployed workers
on November 1, 1924, totalled only 117,059. A piece-work rate agreement,
introduced in 1920 by a large engineering firm in Northern Italy, as a result
of negotiations between employers and workmen, has been very successful.
Each employee is paid a fixed wage according to his rating and trade; over
and above this, a collective piece-work bonus is granted. The latter is a
premium on collective efficiency in the various shops, and is calculated on
the rapidity of output over a certain accepted standard. Taken as a whole,
the system has much to recommend it; it undoubtedly has the effect of
promoting the esprit de corps as well as the efficiency of the workers.
The artificial silk industry has made very rapid strides in recent years,
and it is now claimed that Italy takes second place in the world production
of this commodity. It is one of the country's most important industries.
The textile industry generally, is also in a prosperous condition. The Italian
rubber industry is steadily growing in importance and exports, which
consist chiefly of motor tires, are steadily increasing. Metallurgical centers
located chiefly in Northern and Central Italy produce a fair proportion of
the country's requirements in pig-iron and steel. Large quantities of the
materials are, however, imported annually, and the United Kingdom has a
good share of the trade in cast iron. Imports from France have, never-
theless, increased rapidly, and, in 1923 and 1924, they succeeded in surpassing
the British figures. In semi-manufactured products such as iron and steel
bars, rods and sheets, Great Britain has lost ground in recent years. In
1924, France practically monopolized the trade in bars and rods, and the
United States and Czecho-Slovakia, that in sheets. It is satisfactory to
note, however, that imports of British tin plate are increasing and are far
above those from all other countries. Large consignments of iron and steel
scrap enter Italy annually and, here again, imports from British are very
small compared with those from France. The demand for British machine
tools is very limited and is confined to special articles, the bulk of this trade
goes to Germany, who has dominated this section of the market for some
years past. Most of the requirements in agricultural machinery are supplied
by Germany, although competition from the United States and from France
is growing keen. In the matter of spinning machinery, however, British
manufacturers, who only held a small share of the trade in 1922, now head
the list of importers by a substantial margin. Supplies of electric apparatus


  p. 1983 (#927)                      #

1925)
1983
Professional Notes
generally are chiefly obtained from Germany. With regard to imports of
machinery, it is pointed out in the report that the high price demanded for
British goods is, in some measure, due to the elaborate packing rendered
necessary by the long journey by sea. This difficulty would, it is suggested,
be to some extent overcome by a more extended use of the Harwich-
Zeebrugge train ferry.
During the year 1924, eleven vessels representing a gross tonnage of
79,200, a considerable increase over the previous year, were launched from
Italian shipbuilding yards. These comprised seven steamships, the gross
tonnage of which was 47.990, and four motorships, fitted with Diesel engines,
having a gross tonnage of 31,300. At the end of 1924, seventeen steamers
and eight Diesel-engined motorships were in the course of construction.
Although both the number and the tonnage of ships, launched or begun, in
1924 were greater than in 1923, the improvement was not so great as had
been expected.
The administration of the state railways was recently taken over by the
newly-formed Ministry of Communications, which has pursued a policy of
rigid economy in order to diminish the working deficit. In the financial year
ending June 30, 1924. the expenditure exceeded the revenue by 298. I
million lire, and it is the 'aim by the new ministry to make accounts balance
as soon as possible. These has been a substantial increase in traffic receipts
during the past year, and appreciable reductions in expenditure have been
effected in various directions. The total length of normal gauge track ad-
ministered by the State measures 15,745 km., a further length of 670 km. is
under construction. Some 780 km. of line have been electrified and are in
operation, and another stretch of 810 km. is in course of electrification.
Taken altogether, the economic position of Italy is considered to be
stronger at present, than at ary other time since the war. The internal
national debt is less and the revenue from taxation has not only increased,
but has been placed on a more stable footing. The increase in the importa-
tion of raw materials and the decrease in imports of manufactured goods
denote a revival of industrial activity. Furthermore, this renewed activity,
which is taking place in almost every line of production, is certain to add
to the national wealth and may, at some future date, become a factor in
creating an increased demand for the finer and more finished goods produced
in British factories.
JAPAN
The Commercial and Industrial Position in Japan
Engineering, 31 July, 1925.---Apart from the great loss of life and the
extensive material damage caused, the earthquake which befell Tokyo and
Yokohama on September 1, 1923, was a very severe blow to Japanese
prosperity. The government was obliged, on the one hand, to vote sums for
reconstruction purposes, and, on the other, to make allowance for a reduction
in revenue consequent upon the disaster. The decrease in tax receipts due to
the catastrophe amounted to 130,000,000 yen, and, in order to avoid serious
disturbance of the national finances, public works were postponed, and ex-
penditure was cut down in every way possible. While the earthquake
undoubtedly exerted a profound moral effect on the people, the productive
power of the nation was not greatly affected because the devastated areas
were largely residential, and main industrial centers such as Kwansai and
Kyushu remained intact. There was, however, a decrease in exports during
1923 and a considerable increase in imports. According to the Financial and
Economic Annual of Japan for 1924 issued by the Department of Finance,
exports amounted to 1,448,000,000 yen in 1923, and imports for the same
year totalled 1,982,000,000 yen, The figures for 1922 were 1.367,000,000 yen


  p. 1984 (#928)                      #

1984
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
and 1,890,000,000 yen respectively. Thus, the excess of imports over exports,
already considerable in 1922, appears to have been further intensified by the
earthquake in the Kwanto District
In the matter of imports it is interesting to note that in 1923 British
India supplied more than a third of the requirements in "pig-iron and steel
blooms and billets”; China took second place. Imports from Great Britain
in this section have decreased rapidly since 1919, and the share held by the
United States has dwindled still more quickly. In "iron and steel bars, rods,
plates, sheets, wire goods and tubes,” trade with Great Britain has increased
steadily since 1921, chiefly at the expense of the United States, although
Germany and Belgium are serious competitors. The import trade in
machinery and machine parts, which was very steady during the years
1920-22, decreased in 1923. The United Kingdom supplied goods to the
value of 36,000,000 yen in 1923 and 42,000,000 yen in 1922; the values of
goods supplied by the United States were 42,000,000 yen in 1923 and
57,000,000 yen in 1922. Imports from other countries are small in com-
parison, although here again German trade is increasing. Since 1917, the
first year quoted in the annual, United States manufacturers have had the
motor car import trade entirely in their hands. In 1923, cars to the value
of 13,000,000 yen were imported, nearly 10,000,000 of which were received
from American concerns. Building materials are largely supplied by the
United States, the only competitor worthy of note in the year 1923 being
Germany. Other imports include raw cotton and cotton goods, foodstuffs,
and wool and woollen goods. British India supplies more than half the
raw cotton, Australia has three quarters of the wool import trade, while
Great Britain has for years practically monopolized the market in cotton and
woollen tissues. Exports consist chiefly of silk goods of all descriptions,
together with manufactured articles of a very varied nature and foodstuffs.
Some coal is exported, China and Hongkong being the two chief customers.
Agriculture holds an important place in Japan, and large areas are
devoted to the cultivation of such crops as rice, barley, and wheat; a con-
siderable income is also derived from the State forests. The silk industry
is steadily growing, the total raw silk produced in 1922 being 24,000,000
kilograms as compared with 14,000,000 kilograms in 1913. Tea planting
is another important branch of industry. Turning to mineral products,
the annual shows that, whereas outputs of silver, copper and lead have
fluctuated and, in the main, have diminished since 1914, the production of
pig-iron and steel has increased enormously. In 1914 the outputs of pig-iron
and steel were relatively insignificant; the figures were 74,049 metric tons
and 15,385 metric tons, respectively. This tonnage rose during and after
the war almost without a break, and for the year 1923 the output of pig-iron
was 530,536 metric tons, and that of steel 495,433 metric tons. The quantity
of coal mined in 1914 is recorded as 22,000,444 metric tons; the output for
1923 was 29,000,000 tons, showing a steady increase. On the other hand, the
production of crude petroleum has decreased from over four million
hectolitres in 1914 to less than three million in 1923.
Although introduced at a comparatively recent date, the Tokyo-Yokohama
section having been laid down as a government undertaking in 1872, railways
in Japan are extending rapidly. In 1905, there were 4,778 miles of track,
and a point of interest is that, out of this total, 3,247 miles are owned by
thirty-eight different companies. The main trunk lines themselves are
controlled partly by the state and partly by private companies. Economic
expansion demanded greater efficiency than was possible under these con-
ditions and, in 1906, a railway nationalization bill was passed; under this
measure the government acquired nearly 3,000 miles of privately owned
roads. In 1923, the mileage open to traffic measured over 9,000 miles, as
compared with 6,500 in 1913; in the same interval the number of locomotives


  p. 1985 (#929)                      #

1925)
1985
Professional Notes
increased from 2,700 to 4,300. During the same decade the number of
passengers more than trebled, and the goods traffic nearly doubled.
The territories constituting Greater Japan-Korea (Chosen), Formosa
(Taiwan), Japanese Saghalien (Karafuto), and Kwantung Province are all
undergoing development.Korea is largely an agricultural and pastoral
country, but iron and mild steel are also exported, although quantities have
fallen off somewhat since 1921. Korean railways are expanding, and the
weight and value of traffic of all descriptions are steadily increasing. In
addition to gold and silver, zinc, copper, lead, iron, tungsten ore, graphite,
coal and koalin are also found. The country is especially rich in gold, iron,
graphite and anthracite. Afforestation is encouraged, and is making great
headway; the fisheries are also important. Industry in Korea is, it is stated,
in a promising condition generally. The chief products of Formosa are
derived from its agriculture, and its fisheries, but in the northern portion
of the island are situated deposits of gold, silver and copper; petroleum and
coal are also found. The latter commodity holds an important position
among the exports of the island. Extensive beds of coal have also been
found in Saghalien. Three important seams have been discovered-northern,
central and southern. Of these the central is the most extensive; it is sixty
miles in length, and is from three feet to nine feet thick. Mining operations,
however, have only just begun, and are at present conducted on so small
a scale as barely to satisfy the needs of the island. Petroleum has also
been located, and the matter is being further investigated. The South
Manchurian Railway Company, created for the purpose, is fast increasing
its importance, as the following figures show. The passengers carried in
1914 and 1923 were 3,600,000, and 8,760,000, respectively, the tonnage of
goods hauled was 5,700,000 in 1914, and 13,370,00 in 1923, while the net
income increased from just under 15,000,000 yen in 1914 to nearly 56,500,000
yen in 1923.
As is the case with the majority of other nations, the after effects of war,
and of the boom period immediately following it, still exercise an influence
upon the commercial and industrial welfare of the Japanese people. There
has been no remarkable fall in the price of commodities, and wages are, on an
average, three times as high as they were in 1912, with a tendency to further
increase. Moreover, the national debt, which in the years 1915-18 stood at
2,500,000,000 yen, reached a total of over 4,000,000,000 yen in 1924. Taxes
averaged thirteen yen per head of the population in the year 1923-24, or
about double the pre-war figure. Taken altogether, however, the situation in
Japan is one of progress, and the outlook is promising.
UNITED STATES
Another Side of the 5-5-3 Argument
By Captain Dudley W. Knox, U.S.N., Ret., Scientific American, August,
1925.—That the American battleship fleet is substantially stronger than the
British battleship fleet is the principal contention of an article by Mr. J.
Bernard Walker in the May issue of the Scientific American.* In conclusion,
presumably on account of such alleged superiority, he limits his recommenda-
tion of what should be done to our battleships to "repair work.”
It should be understood that the last Congress, following the recommenda-
tions of the Secretary of the Navy and the President, authorized extensive
“modernization" of six of our oldest battleships. Nine million dollars, one
half of the total amount ultimately necessary, was appropriated for this
specific purpose.
The modernization plan is much beyond the scope of anything which could
be characterized as “repairs.” It amounts to extensive alteration of design.
* This article was copied in the Professional Notes in the June issue.


  p. 1986 (#930)                      #

1986
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The deck is to be armored as a protection against aerial bombs and the
plunging effect of modern long range gunfire. The underwater hull is to
be protected against damage from mines, torpedoes, and bombs, by fitting
"bulges" or "blisters," which, as their name indicates, are structures built
on outside the old hull. They project ten feet or more beyond the original
underwater side of the ship and extend longitudinally through most of her
length.
Another large item of modernization is the conversion of boilers and
bunkers so that oil fuel may be used instead of coal. This will increase
not only the maximum distance which the vessel can steam, but also her
dependability for sustained high speed-a very important feature in battle.
All of these large alterations of design are intended to increase the
fighting power of the ships—to bring our fleet more nearly to a 5-5-3 ratio
in battleship strength which it is now below. Naval officers and civilian
officials recommended increasing the elevation limits of our battleship guns
to give them greater range as an additional item of modernization necessary
to the same end. The British Government considered that this would be a
violation of the Naval Treaty. French and Japanese authorities supported
the American view as to treaty interpretation. President Coolidge main-
tained that we had a legal right to elevate the guns but settled the con-
troversy by striking the gun elevation item out of the modernization program
on the ground of national economy.
Mr. Walker has revived the gun elevation controversy after it had been
settled for several months. There would be little need of my further
perpetuating it herein, except that his argument to prove that we did not
require greater gun elevations furnishes equally good reasons against the
other items of modernization. If our fleet is already above the standing
of five in the 5-5-3 ratio, if we already “have the whip hand," as he claims,
there is little reason in our spending $18,000,000 for the purpose of attaining
that ratio, in the face of a firmly held national policy of economy.
The three principal fallacies in Mr. Walker's exposition of the relative
strength of the American and British battleship forces pertain to questions
of (1) maximum firing range, (2) speed, and (3) tactics. In order to
demonstrate these fallacies the more clearly I will refer to his own tabular
statements.
With regard to the question of maximum firing ranges eight of the
British capital ships listed have the ability to shoot about 5,000 yards farther
than stated. No such correction can be applied to any of the
American battleships. The discrepancy arises from the fact that the five
ships of the Royal Sovereign class, together with the Repulse, Renown, and
Warspite, are equipped with "bulges" or "blisters.” As explained above,
these queer structures are for the .primary purpose of protection against
underwater damage from mines, torpedoes and bombs, but they offer an
important additional advantage of permitting the ship to be easily heeled
over a few degrees, by pumping the oil or water, which they normally
contain, from the blister on one side while leaving the other side filled.
The manifest effect of this upon guns pointed outboard is to increase the
angle between their axis and the horizontal, and thus permit them to shoot
farther.
This is not an ideal way of gaining increased range, but it is much better
than no way. The disadvantages are a temporary reduction in speed and
impaired armor protection on account of lifting the lower edge of the armor
belt close to or above the water-line. The latter disadvantage disappears
when the enemy guns cannot reach. Special appliances for quickly flood-
ing or emptying compartments, such as are commonly employed in sub-
marines, may make it possible to promptly rectify the disadvantages when-


  p. 1987 (#931)                      #

1925]
1987
Professional Notes
ever circumstances so demand. As early as 1915 the British used this
general method of increasing the range of battleship guns while in action
against German ports on the coast of Belgium.
In addition to the eight British ships named as being already able to
shoot about 5,000 yards farther than shown, we must count a similar increase
for four more in the near future, since according to British handbooks
the Admiralty intends to fit all ships of the Queen Elisabeth class
with "bulges." This will make a total of twelve ships of 5,000 yards greater
maximum range than stated.
But, even this is not the whole story of British gun range in relation
to the need of our modernization to prevent falling farther behind in the
theoretical 5-5-3 ratio. The British are now building two battleships stronger
than anything afloat. Each will carry nine 16-in. guns, which, in all proba-
bility, will outrange anything that we have. These new ships, begun in
1922, should be completed next year and will replace the four old British
battleships standing at the bottom of the list.
The average maximum range of their fleet after the above mentioned
changes will be about 28,600 yards, as compared with 24,600 yards for our
fleet at present. The addition of "blisters" to six of our ships should
enable the American fleet to average about 26,000 yards, leaving the British
an advantage of about 2,500 yards in fleet range. This gunnery aspect of
the comparison is also greatly affected by the aggregate weight of the pro-
jectiles fired in each broadside, which gives an index of the damage to be
expected from hits. These figures are, British 315,000 pounds, and American
262,000 pounds.
Let us now pass to a consideration of speed, an element of great im-
portance in getting guns to a position from which they can reach an
enemy. From this viewpoint oil-burning ships have become almost a
necessity. Large fleet battles last a long time and require much high-speed
steaming. In coal-burning ships boiler grates, furnaces, and uptakes become
foul and firemen become tired, sometimes cutting down the maximum speed
several knots. On the other hand, oil-burning ships can maintain their
maximum paper speed without difficulty.
We now have six coal-burning battleships and the British, four. All of
these carry a small amount of oil for emergency use—the British ships twice
as much as ours. But, in about a year the British coal burners will be
scrapped and replaced by the Rodney and Nelson, when their entire fleet
will be on an oil-burning basis. Their slowest battleships already have a
battle advantage of about i knot over ours, which will become greater when
their new ships come out. Unless we modernize, this disparity will be
greater and the difficulty of a large proportion of our ships getting into
action will be increased.
This matter of speed also enters very vitally into the final question to be
discussed—that of tactics. It will be noted that the entire American fleet
closely approximates 21 knots maximum speed, whereas nearly half the
British ships are capable of doing 25 knots. Four of their ships are rated
around 20 knots-a very high speed for capital ships. This gives to the
British fleet a great tactical advantage readily convertible into terms of
range and gun power.
Mr. Walker's conception of a fleet battle being fought in two parallel
columns is more than 100 years out of date. For centuries such was the
practice rigidly required by official fighting instructions. It took a Nelson
to explode the old fallacies and to demonstrate the crushing effect of applying
afloat the well-known land practice of concentrating superior forces against
a part of the hostile formation. Since Nelson's day that has been the great
cardinal objective in naval tactics. By a successful concentration on the


  p. 1988 (#932)                      #

1988
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Russian flank at the battle of Tsushima the Japanese fleet quickly annihilated
with small losses to themselves the theoretically stronger Russian fleet.
One can search the diagrams of the battle of Jutland in vain for any
reasonable approximation to a parallel column position as between the two
main fleets. From the beginning to the end of this long battle, Admiral
Jellicoe's principal tactical object was to get on the German flank, where
all of his broadsides could bear on the few German ships which could reply
from the end of their line. Jellicoe reached this advantage position three
times but failed to reap the advantage of it, principally on account of the
misty weather.
It is true that a slow fleet may seek to bring on a parallel fight-but only
as a measure of self defense to prevent the fast feet from reaching the
coveted flank position. In the case under discussion the nine fast British
ships have such a great superiority of speed that they should normally be
able to gain the American flank in spite of anything the latter fleet can do.
Naturally, they would choose the particular flank nearest to the remaining
eleven slower British ships. Thus, one American Alank would be subjected
to the concentrated fire of the entire British feet, while the other flank
would be out of range. Such a tactical concentration would inevitably
mean an early sweeping and British victory.
To sum up: The approved modernization of the American fleet can
serve only to reduce the existing superiority of the British fleet-a superi-
ority which otherwise would be even greater when British modernization
now in hand has been finished. With the modernization now in progress
for both fleets completed the British will then have a superiority of about
2,500 yards in average range, twenty per cent in weight of broadside fire,
and a very marked tactical advantage incident to speed. The logic of
modernizing our ships is apparent.
The writer is not one of those who believes that war is probable between
this country and Great Britain. He does believe, however, in the principle
of equality of naval power with our cousins, which principle was formally
subscribed to at the Washington Conference. Such equality seems more
likely to preserve peace between the two great leaders of the world than
any substantial difference in sea strength, since equality means a greater
mutual respect for each other's interests in the trade rivalries which seem
certain to continue.
The Great Pacific War
H. C. Bywater's New Work, Naval and Military Record, 5 August,
1925.-Readers of Sea Power in the Pacific will remember the surprising
insight into the problems of the Pacific, and the strength of the Japanese
and American Navies, shown by the author. In that book Mr. Bywater
discussed at some length the problems which would confront the United
States in the event of a war with Japan. He has now written another book
which further develops this subject. Instead of an abstract strategical
treatise, the new book takes the form of the history of a war between the
United States and Japan, which takes place between 1931 and 1933.
The main purpose of the book is to prove that, notwithstanding the
handicaps of distance, and, on America's side, the want of naval stations in
the western area of the Pacific, means might still be found of establishing
contact between the main belligerent forces and thus forcing matters to a
decisive issue. In his preface Mr. Bywater says: “It is often averred that
war between the United States and Japan is out of the question, if only
because their respective fleets, divided as they are by thousands of miles of
ocean and with no intermediate bases of supply, could never get sufficiently
close to engage. This, however, is probably a delusion, as I have endeavored
to show."


  p. 1989 (#933)                      #

1925]
1989
Professional Notes
In the body of the history, strict attention has been paid to the tactical
possibility of all movements and to accurate descriptions of all islands and
harbors, and no effort has been spared to ensure technical accuracy through-
out the narrative.
The book opens with an account of the causes that led to the war.
Japan, torn by internal dissension, and jealous of American influence in
China, forces a quarrel on the United States. The Japanese people rally
to the national emergency, and the internal disorder ceases. Before the
formal deciaration of war a Japanese freighter blows up in the Panama
Canal, completely blocking the Culebra Cut and preventing the Atlantic
naval bases from being of any use.
Cable and radio communication between the United States and the
Philippines are interrupted. The formal declaration of war is almost
unnecessary, for a few hours after the commencement of hostilities the
American Asiatic Squadron is completely destroyed by a Japanese battle
cruiser squadron. This action proves the futility of manning foreign
stations with ships which are too weak to fight and too slow to run away.
Two invading forces land in the Philippines, not without appalling loss of
life, and the small American force is cut to pieces and the remnants are
forced to surrender. After a spirited defense, the island of Guam falls
into the hands of the Japanese, who also carry on a campaign against the
American trade with the Far East. The Japanese observe the rules laid
down at Washington with the regard to the treatment of non-combatants.
At this stage a surprise raid on the coast of California is made by two
Japanese submarines, with an aircraft carrier and fuel-ship. This rouses
the American people and huge shipbuilding schemes are launched.
A foolhardy attempt by the Americans to found a base in the Bonin
Islands is frustrated, and a commerce-raiding campaign is commenced by
the Americans in the western Pacific. The Americans continue to attempt
to take a suitable base for their main fleet within striking distance of Japan,
and succeed at last. The Japanese are confused by the presence of a fleet
of dummy battleships. Several of these are sunk, and the Japanese are
deceived into thinking that the strength of the American fleet is less than
it actually is. Too late they discover their mistake, and are involved in an
action with the American main fleet. They are crushed by the superior
weight of metal. The losses are, on the American side, two capital ships; on
the Japanese five.
The tide now turns. Chinese armies overrun Manchuria, Guam is taken
by the Americans, the Philippines are retaken, and an armistice is signed
after two and a half years of war. In the peace which follows neither side
benefits, and all conquests are returned. Both sides are exhausted.
Many interesting points come out in the course of the narrative, and the
account of the fleet action is particularly illuininating Aircraft enthusiasts
will be interested in the account of the attack by the American aircraft
at the outset of the battle. “..... At 3:20 P.M. fifty planes, the
majority being bombers and torpedo-carriers, took off from the Lexington
and Saratoga, with orders to .... attack the leading battleships of the
first column they sighted.
"In forty minutes they were within view of the Japanese fleet and were
rushing to attack, when suddenly a powerful flight of enemy machines, which
had been patrolling at a higher level came dropping down to intercept them.
To give a detailed account of this scrimmage in the air would be impossible.
In the first minute of the fierce mêlée nearly a dozen machines went down
out of control. Thrice amidst the crackle of machine-gun fire did head-on
collisions take place, the Japanese aviators never hesitating to ram when
otherwise baulked of their prey, preferring to immolate themselves rather
than allow the American bombs to reach their ships. Less than half of the


  p. 1990 (#934)                      #

1990
[Oct.
U. S. Navul Institute Proceedings
American machines broke through and made for the Japanese fleet, which
received them with a hurricane of fire.
"How different now were the circumstances from those which aviation
enthusiasts, deceived by artificial peace tests against helpless targets, had
pictured! From the ships below turning and twisting at high speed, came
a varitable stream of shell, the incessant detonations of which caused the
planes to rock as in a gale of wind. The air was alive with steel splinters
and poisoned with acid fumes. Still the indomitable pilots held on, and
were almost in range, when six Japanese machines crossed in front of them
at lightning speed, leaving a thick curtain of yellowish vapor in their
wake as they passed. As the American fliers drove through this curtain
they were instantly conscious of a choking sensation, accompanied by rack-
ing head pains. Through some culpable oversight they had not been
equipped with gas masks. The omission was fatal. All but two of the
machines dived headlong into the sea, their pilots having been disabled by
the noxious fumes."
This is a book of special interest both to the naval officer and to the
student of naval warfare, and can be recommended to those of the general
public who desire to form an accurate impression of modern naval warfare.
The Great Pacific War: A History of the American-Japanese Campaign
of 1931 to 1933, by Hector C. Bywater. Constable and Co., London. Ios. 6d.
AERONAUTICS
Commercial Airports and Airways
By Hiram Bingham, U. S. Senator from Connecticut, U. S. Air Services,
August, 1925.—The great need of the hour is not faster or larger airplanes.
Commercial transport planes are now in operation which carry 1,000 pounds
of mail and express a distance of 300 miles in three hours. It is already
possible to save fully half of the time now used up in railroad transportation.
We all agree that time is the most precious thing in the world. The only
way to enjoy more time is to save what we have. We know that an hour
saved is an hour earned. Time flies. If you want to catch up with it, you
must fly, too. The question is how to do it, how to develop commercial
aviation. The answer is not better planes but better airways-not faster
aircraft but real airports. We do not need more practical planes. We do
need more navigable routes. We do not need safer airships. We do need
reasonable aids to navigation. America is slow in developing commercial
aviation because Americans think in terms of railroads and motor transport
rather than in terms of navigation. We built railroads before we had
depots. We used motor cars before we had public garages or even service
stations. So we think we should be able to use airplanes before there are
airports, yet we did not have ocean liners until we had safe harbors. We
had no ocean commerce until we developed seaports. We shall have no
air commerce until we develop airports.
Today commercial aviation does not need rare aeronautical inventive sense
so much as it needs the application of common marine sense. We do
not need brilliant inventors so much as we need the courage and foresight
of foreign traders. Our problems are the problems of ocean shipping.
In shipping circles they understand the difference between a port, a
harbor, and an anchorage. If we want to save time by using commercial
aviation, we must learn the difference between an airport, a flying field,
and a landing field.
The landing field is only an anchorage. There your ship may stay
under certain favorable conditions, but will avoid it if she can. An
anchorage is better than nothing; so is a landing field, even though small
and restricted.


  p. 1991 (#935)                      #

1925]
1991
Professional Notes
A flying field is only a natural harbor. Grassy plains make good
landing fields, but the existence of grassy plains no more satisfies the air
pilot looking for good terminal facilities than does a natural harbor satisfy
the demands of a sea captain looking for good port facilities.
An airport is like a seaport. It has to be constructed by man to meet
the needs of aircraft. Seaports attract ocean commerce. It takes real
airports to attract air commerce. Nature has provided Aying fields and
landing fields, but man must build hangars and shops and provide run-
ways, night lights, radio service, weather data, and other facilities. Then
will commercial aviation make great strides and those cities which have
adequate airports will flourish accordingly. New York, San Francisco,
and Seattle are blessed with wonderful natural harbors. When they took
advantage of what Nature had given them and built adequate docks, they
became great seaports. If they are to become great airports, they must
speedily study the requirements and build accordingly.
The mere fact that a town is on the seacoast and the waters near it
extend to all parts of the earth, does not mean that town will become a
great seaport. The mere fact that a town is swept by the winds and
breezes which flow freely around the earth does not mean that that town
can easily become an airport. It takes foresight and community effort.
The problem of providing an adequate airport for New York City is a
very serious one. It has been suggested that a small landing field might be
provided by placing a flat roof over such a structure as the Pennsylvania
Railroad Terminal, but this would involve enormous expense. While it
would provide a landing field for passenger and mail planes within a
few minutes of the center of the financial district, there would be no room
for hangars or shops and these would have to be provided somewhere in the
suburbs. Furthermore, the air over a great city is always very rough
and adds to the danger of landing. Those who have landed in a small
boat on a rough and rocky coast can imagine something of the difficulty.
I have sometimes thought that in the Hackensack Meadows, New York
possessed the possibilities of creating a great airport at relatively low
expense within a few minutes' run of Broadway and Fifth avenue. It
almost seems as though Nature had kept man from making any extensive
use of the Hackensack Meadows in order that when the need came there
might here be developed one of the world's great airports without the
necessity of tearing down many buildings or making very expensive changes.
Another possibility would be to persuade the federal government to
transform Governors Island into a great federal airport. Since airports,
like seaports, will ultimately benefit everybody, the government ought to
aid in their procurement. In the past, towns have built municipal docks,
states have built magnificent roads, and the nation has provided aids to
navigation and improved the navigable waters. In the future, towns must
build municipal airports, states must provide safe air routes and the
nation must furnish aids to air navigation and improve navigable airways
and air harbors.
There are so many air routes capable of being developed that we can
not expect the federal government to do much more than provide a few
large airports for the great centers of population, and lighthouses and
beacons for those airports which are developed by states and municipalities.
I would like to see a law passed authorizing the United States Bureau of
Lighthouse to establish lighthouses for air navigation wherever proper air-
ports have been completed by states and cities. This bureau is well equipped
to render this kind of aid to night flying.
It should be a state matter, on the other hand, to make the ap-
proaches to airports safe and to provide an adequate number of landing
fields along recognized air routes. The states of the Union should authorize


  p. 1992 (#936)                      #

1992
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Lustitute Proceedings
their highway commissioners to order wires to be placed underground
when they are a real inenace to air navigators in entering or leaving an
airport. States must also prevent obstacles from being erected or trees
irom being permitted to grow on lands which serve as entries to the air-
port. Today we recognize the government's right to prevent any citizen
from erecting anything which shall be an obstruction to navigation in our
navigable waters. Reasonable restrictions must be made to the surround-
ings of state and municipal airports. There are many purposes for which
lands in the immediate vicinity of an airport can be used without inter-
fering with aerial navigation. Such are the questions which our law makers
must begin to study and prepare to solve. This is the kind of aid which
the authorities of our government must be prepared to give to air naviga-
tion rather than subsidies.
Heavily laden ocean steamers carrying precious cargoes to the ends of
the earth avoid coast towns where the water is shallow, the harbors un-
protected in time of storm, landing facilities poor, charts inaccurate, buoys
missing, and submerged rocks unmarked. They need deep safe channels and
all the aids to navigation which man can devise and provide. Similarly,
heavily laden air transports will avoid those cities and towns where it is
impossible to make safe landings; where the navigable air is restricted by
high buildings, wires, and other obstructions; where the necessarily slow
climb of the commercially profitable heavily laden air transport finds it
impossible to reach the open air without flying too long near that dangerous
"lee shore" the far too solid earth.
A small fast motor boat, carrying a few people and a few pounds of
cargo, can easily utilize a great many natural harbors without great ex-
pense. Similarly, a small airplane, carrying one or two passengers and a
few pounds of freight, can utilize small flying fields without incurring
great danger or expense. On the other hand, a commercially profitable
ocean-going steamer, carrying many passengers and much freight, must be
provided with the requisite port facilities before it will come to your city at
all.
Similarly, the profitable commercial air transport must have good port
facilities before it will come to your city at all. Not only must there
be a large open field, having long runways, north, south, east, and west, so
as to take advantage of whatever wind is blowing, but there must be level
spaces beyond the landing fields so that the heavily laden cargo plane will
not be obliged to climb rapidly. The more rapidly a plane must climb in
order to reach the safe and open air, the less load it can take. The more
room a plane has in settling down to earth, the more safely can it land with
a heavy load.
The more one studies the question the more striking becomes the resemh-
lance between aviation and navigation. Accidents at sea are due in part
to storms, very rarely to defects in seagoing vessels, and most frequently
to dangerous coasts and to lack of safe harbors when one is driven by storm
on a lee shore without sufficient power to head out into the open Ocean.
Most accidents in the air are due to similar causes; very few are to detec
in the plane; most are due to being driven by loss of power down toward
"lee shore” where there are no safe harbors, no landing fields to ma
the airways safe. These must be provided.
Ocean routes through safe, navigable waters between two well-equippe
ports along well-charted coasts are relatively safe, and the insurance charges
are low. Similarly, air voyages between two well-equipped airports over a
well-charted route provided with frequent landing fields are relatively sale
and should have a low rate of insurance.
Ocean voyages between some of the South Sea Islands are dangerous
and the insurance rates are very high, even though each island may hay
a
have


  p. 1993 (#937)                      #

1925)
1993
Professional Notes
a good natural harbor. The insurance rate is high and the risk is great
because the route is through uncharted seas, where there are few light-
houses, many shoals, no warning beacons, and no good harbors.
The United States, desirous of enjoying the benefits of ocean trans-
port, has spent large sums of money deepening harbors, charting coasts,
and providing many aids to navigation. If we are desirous of enjoying
the benefits of air transport, we must similarly spend large sums of money
broadening flying fields, charting navigable airways, and providing all
possible aids to aerial navigation.
As exporters, your interest in saving time may be divided into two
parts: that which concerns the time consumed in going or sending to the
port of embarkation, and that which is consumed between the time your
cargo leayes America and its arrival at a foreign port. For the first
part you now rely largely on motor cars or trains, and for the second
part you rely on steamships or sailing vessels. Some cargoes you are
willing to entrust to the slowest vessels ; for others you seek the fast ex-
and most expensive. For some things you use the mails and fast ex-
press, and even then regret they are not faster. For such things the niodern
airplane offers you great assistance and great possibilities.
The commercial transport plane will save you at least 50 per cent
of the time as compared with the fastest trains or motor cars, and
probably the time is not far distant when this saving will be increased.
Bills of lading, commercial papers, small articles of great value but little
bulk, can all be safely sent by airplane if proper terminal facilities are
provided at either end and a proper airway is provided over which to fly.
In other words, the pilot and the airplane are ready to help you but they
can not do it until aids to navigation similar to those which exist for
ocean commerce are provided by the federal government for air commerce,
and until your city provides an airport.
As regards the second part of the journey in which you are interested,
it does not seem likely that the airplane will be able (certainly not in the
near future) to afford you much practical assistance. Professor Warner,
the aeronautical engineer of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
warns us that anything in the nature of commercial operation of airplanes
over a nonstop route having a total length of more than 600 miles, is still
far distant. On the other hand, the airship, or lighter-than-air craft, is
capable of offering you great assistance, but here again this assistance must
always depend on the nature of the terminal or port facilities which are
provided.
Ocean vessels which are lighter than the water they displace can safely
cross the ocean. Airships which are lighter than the air they displace may
safely cross the ocean. Repairs to the power plant can be made without
descending. Recent experiments have shown that properly constructed air-
ships can ride out very considerable gales. Rigid balloons of the Los
Angeles or Shenandoah types can make sixtyor seventy miles an hour.
This does not enable them to compete with railroad trains over land, or
with the transport airplane capable of going nearly twice as fast. On the
other hand, the airship's speed of sixty miles an hour is more than twice as
fast as the fastest ocean liners. Airships can therefore save you at least
50 per cent of the time consumed in sending mail and express over seas.
I believe that successful commercial aviation over land depends on the
use of airplanes and in meeting their requirements. Successful commercial
flying over seas depends on using rigid airships and meeting their require-
ments. An airport suitable for the use of Zeppelins is totally different
from one suitable for the use of commercial transport planes. They
have, in fact, little in common, and their possibilities of competition are
very different. I should like to see our navigable military lighter-than-air


  p. 1994 (#938)                      #

1994
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
craft given over entirely to the Navy and not divided between the Army
and Navy as at present.
A comparative study of the difficulty involved in safely bringing the
airplanes of the World Flyers across the Atlantic and the bringing of the
rigid airships, the R-34 and the Los Angeles, across the Atlantic shows
forcibly what is meant regarding the advisability of using the lighter-than-
air ships for overseas service. The R-34, in July, 1919, took only two
days to cross the Atlantic and only two days and a half to return to Eng-
land. The only serious difficulties encountered were those due to lack of
proper terminal facilities at this end. On the other hand, as I hardly need
to remind you, the world flyers spent weeks in getting across the Atlantic,
and were repeatedly delayed by fog and ice in their courageous efforts to
find a comparatively safe airway via Iceland, Greenland, and Labrador.
In conclusion, permit me, then, to call to your attention certain things
which must be done if we are to enjoy the enormous saving of time which
commercial aviation will permit. In the first place, we must plan to use
airplanes over land and airships over sea. In the second place, we must
recognize the absolute necessity of proper terminal facilities. There must
be adequate airports if there is to be much air commerce. There must also
be suitable flying fields as air stations and frequent landing fields to use
as anchorages in time of storm and stress. In the third place, we must
realize the necessity of developing navigable airways and providing them
with adequate charts, lighthouses, buoys, beacons, radio, and other neces-
sary aids to navigation. Finally, our municipalities must aid by furnish-
ing airports. Our states must aid by providing airways. Our national
government, through a bureau of air navigation in the Department of
Commerce, must do as much to aid air commerce as it has done to aid ocean
commerce. Time flies. If you would catch up with it you must fly, also.
Superchargers
Aviation, July 27, 1925.-The basic factor which determines the power
output of an internal combustion engine is the weight of fuel burned in
a given time. However, for proper combustion a fixed ratio must be said
that the power depends directly on the weight of air used. The volume
of air used at each stroke is constant, but the weight depends upon the
engine speed, throttle opening, resistance through the intake valves, etc.
Concurrent with the development of the internal combustion engine, at-
tempts have been made to increase the weight of air burned in any given
engine by some external device. For example, most Diesel engines have
separate cylinders in excess of the quantity that these cylinders would
ordinarily suck in. A supercharger is simply an external air pump designed
to supply this extra air. In an aviation engine it is used to maintain con-
stant density of intake air as higher altitudes are reached and the sur-
rounding atmospheric pressure decreases.
For a supercharger to be economically applied to an airplane engine
three factors must be considered : namely, weight, bulk and fuel consump-
tion. The Liberty engine weighs with water approximately 920 lbs. and
develops 420 b.h.p. At 25,000 ft. this brake horsepower is only 162.5 or
38.7 per cent of the sea level power. The weight per horsepower at this
altitude is 5.66 lb. per h.p. The actual weight of a supercharger to maintain
approximately sea level power on the Liberty engine is 182 lb, which
includes the increased weight of the cooling system. The total weight of
the supercharged Liberty engine is 1102 lb., the power output at 25,000 ft.
is 400 hp., and the weight per horsepower is 2.75 lb., or less than one half
of that of the unsupercharged engine. The power of the unsupercharged
Liberty would have to be increased to 246 per cent to bring it up to that
of the supercharged engine. It is obvious that such an increase would


  p. 1995 (#939)                      #

1925)
1995
Professional Notes
be impossible without greatly increasing the weight and bulk of the engine.
In fuel consumption the supercharged engine has a decided advantage,
as the constant density of intake air maintained by the supercharger keeps
the specific fuel consumption at approximately the normal rate, while the
specific fuel consumption of the unsupercharged engine increases 12.8 per
cent in 25,000 ft.
From the foregoing it is apparent that a supercharger can be economically
applied to an aviation engine and is an actual necessity for high altitude
flying.
As a supercharger is nothing more or less than an air pump, there are
several types available for consideration. First, is the piston type or
compressor. This operates at low speeds, is complicated and bulky mechani-
cally, and, although having a high efficiency, is altogether too large and
heavy to be considered for aviation purposes.
The second classification is the rotary blower, such as a gear pump, vane
pump, or Roots blower. Pumps of this type are less bulky than the piston
type, operate at speeds as high as 5,000 r.p.m. with an efficiency of perhaps
Engine Exhaust
Pipe to Turbine
Turbine Exhaust A
Exhaust Intake
Discharge ......
Yalre Yare
By-pass Valve.
Intake
Pipe
Air Compressor
Housing ........!
Nozzle
Carburetor
Air Intake
tahes
Rotor
Turbine
Housing
Air Impeller.
Member
Air Discharge
to Carbureter
SCHEMATIC LAYOUT OF A TURBO SUPERCHARGER
60 per cent. The Roots blower has certain mechanical disadvantages due
to the gear train necessary to give the two rotating impellers the proper
angular rotation. The clearances must be sufficient to prevent the impellers
from rubbing together, or from rubbing against the compressor housing and
yet must be small enough to prevent excessive leakage of air. As the
pressure rise with this type of pump is independent of speed, it is used
with some success as an automobile supercharger.
The third classification is the centrifugal compressor which consists
simply of an impeller rotating in a closed casing. It is extremely simple
mechanically as it has only one moving part; it operates at very high speeds
and has a slightly better efficiency than the rotary blower. The type of
pump used for the compressor must be considered in connection with the
method of drive. In large multi-engine airplanes it is possible to use a
separate driving engine such as a 150 h.p. Hispano engine of similar engine
with a pump which supplies air both to the driving engine and to the other
engines of the airplane. A separate drive of this nature is equally as
reliable as the other engines installed in the airplane and the failure of the
supercharger will not affect the operation of the other engines at low
altitudes.


  p. 1996 (#940)                      #

1996
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The supercharger may also be geared directly to the engine which it
supercharges and, in this case, its reliability is dependent upon the gear
drive. A rotary blower, such as the Roots, can be built to operate at
crankshaft speed; however, a double set of gears, one on each side of the
two impellers in the Roots blower, are necessary to provide the proper
angular rotation of the blower and keep the impellers from rubbing. These
gears are necessary regardless of whether or not the blower is driven at
crankshaft or higher speeds. While some experimental work has been
done by the National Advisory Committee on this type of blower, it is not
yet possible to draw any definite conclusions as to its ultimate success
in large units, and it certainly offers more mechanical complications than
the centrifugal type.
When the centrifugal blower is driven by direct gearing from the
engine a gear ratio of from 8-1 to 15-1 is necessary as the blower must
operate at speeds between 20,000 and 30,000 r.p.m. in order to reduce the
size of the compressor and to provide a sufficient compression ratio. The
high speed of the impeller when geared directly to the engine involves con-
siderable difficulties in the gear train and bearings due to the inertia of the
moving parts. The Engineering Division has done a great deal of ex- ·
perimental work along these lines and has had no difficulty with gear trains
operating at pitch speeds as high as 7,000 ft./min. Ball and roller bearings
have been used in these installations to maintain accurate gear centers and
to reduce the friction and lubricating difficulties. The problem of ball
bearings at these high speeds is one of centrifugal stress in the bearing
itself rather than loads imposed by the operation of the supercharger. It
is yet uncertain whether or not it will be possible to successfully operate
anti-friction bearings at such high speeds and still have them thoroughly
dependable over a long period of time. The inertia of the impeller and the
moving parts and the fact that they are directly geared to the engine
causes frequent fatigue failures, due to the transmission of engine vibra-
tion and torsional vibration of the crankshaft through the gear train. In
the smaller sizes, geared superchargers have operated quite successfully
without mechanical difficulties and have shown reasonable reliability over
long periods of time.
Another method of drive is by means of a gas turbine developed first by
M. Rateau of France and later by the General Electric Company for the
Air Service. It offers probably the simplest and most reliable method of
drive for an airplane supercharger with the necessary speed of a centri-
fugal compressor, and as developed by the Engineering Division at the
present time the superchargers are reliable and run practically without
attention. As there is no mechanical connection between the supercharger
and the engine it is not affected by variation in engine speed, or by vibra-
tion within the engine itself. The control is extremely simple and the
installation rugged and reliable.
Either a geared or turbo supercharger used with the Liberty engine to
maintain sea level pressure at 20,000 ſt. requires approximately 56 h.p. In
the geared supercharger the power is taken directly from the crankshaft of
the engine, and therefore a Liberty engine to maintain its full power output
at 20,000 ft. must develop at the crankshaft 476 h.p. The power required
to drive the supercharger is partially recovered, as the engine has its
carburetor air supplied at 14.17 lb. per pressure and exhausts at only 7 lb.
per sq. in. pressure. The combustion space at the end of the exhaust stroke
is therefore filled with gas at only 7 lb. pressure and on the intake stroke
the engine takes in not only the volume of air equal to the displacement of
the piston but also sufficient volume to fill the combustion space up to the
pressure of the intake air. The additional volume of gas taken into the
cylinders and the low atmospheric pressure of the exhaust produces an


  p. 1997 (#941)                      #

1925]
1997
Professional Notes
increase in the mean effective pressure which practically compensates for
the power required to drive the supercharger. At lower altitudes, however,
this is not the case. Take for example flying just at sea level. There is
a minimum power required to drive the supercharger, which in this case is
between 20 and 30 h.p. At sea level the supercharger is not supplying
additional power to the engine, so the actual output of the engine will be
420 h.p. less this minimum power required to drive the supercharger. In
other words, a gear driven supercharger develops less than normal horse-
power at low altitudes and will maintain approximately full normal horse-
power at the rated altitude of the supercharger.
The turbo supercharger derives its power from the residual heat and
energy left in the exhausted gas at the end of the expansion stroke. The
gas is collected in a manifold, discharged through a series of nozzles onto
a turbine wheel mounted on the same shaft as the impeller. At altitude, the
exhaust gas is kept slightly above sea level pressure, and expands through
the nozzles to an atmospheric pressure of approximately 7 lb. per sq. in.
The energy taken from the gas during this pressure drop is sufficient to
drive the turbine and supply a full charge of intake air at sea level
pressure. The control is by means of a gate which allows the unused por-
tion of the exhaust gas to discharge directly to the atmosphere. At the
ground the gate is kept wide open and the exhaust is discharged at
atmospheric pressure, so that the supercharger places no load on the
engine at sea level. It should also be noted that at altitudes the power
output of the engine does not exceed its normal output on account of the
supercharger, whereas in the gear drive the crankshaft must transmit not
only the normal horsepower of the engine but also the necessary horse-
power required to drive the supercharger. The first problem in the design
of a turbo supercharger was the extreme heat of the exhaust gas. This is
in the neighborhood of 1,500 ° F. Difficulty was encountered with the
manifolds and nozzle boxes used to convey the gas to the turbine wheel.
The joints between the exhaust ports and manifolds, and between the
various parts of the manifolds would crack and leak, the nozzle box and
nozzle ring would warp and distort and frequently rub against the turbine
wheel. The turbine buckets rotating at better than 20,000 r.p.m. were
severely stressed and as the elastic limit of their material was reduced
by the high temperature of the gas in which they operated the buckets
frequently pulled out and broke. In the compressor end difficulties were
met with the bearings, methods of mounting, and minor construction details.
The Engineering Division after five or six years steady development
and experimental work on the turbo supercharger has overcome practically
all former difficulties. The manifolds are joined together by flexible ex-
pansion joints wrapped with asbestos tape and covered with a steel clamp.
These joints maintain the necessary pressure and are flexible enough to allow
for expansion and contraction without stressing the manifolds or other
structure. The supercharger has been mounted on the side of the airplane
with the turbine wheel overhung, and exposed to the slipstream of the
propeller. In this way the buckets are kept cool, the exhaust gas is dis-
charged freely to the atmosphere without unnecessary back pressure, and
the operating conditions are much more favorable than in the former
nose type supercharger. The bearings have been simplified and at the
present it is very unusual to have any bearing trouble, in spite of the fact
that speeds as high as 34,000 r.p.m. have been maintained. Developments
are now under way to replace plain babbitted bearings of the turbo super-
charger by ball and roller bearings which will be packed with lubricating
fluid and will remove the necessity for pressure oil feed to the super-
charger, and drain lines from the bearings. This will simplify the instal-
lation and make it unnecessary to consider the lubrication of the super-


  p. 1998 (#942)                      #

1998
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
charger except at long intervals, when the lubricant in the bearings will be
renewed by means of a grease gun, such as the Alemite or other high
pressure system.
The early difficulties in supercharging were not with the supercharger
alone, many changes were found necessary in the engines to which the
supercharger was applied. In fact, overcoming of these latter difficulties
was equally as important as the development of the supercharger itself.
When air is compressed its temperature is raised due to the heat of
adiabatic compression. As the supercharger is not 100 per cent efficient, the
turbulence, friction losses, and so forth, increase the temperature of the
compressed air. When this air was pumped to the carburetors the result-
ing mixture temperature was so high that preignition would occur on full
throttle running at altitude. The obvious solution was the addition of an
air cooler, located between the supercharger and the carburetors, to reduce
the air temperature to a point at which the engine would run satisfactorily
without preignition or detonation. In spite of the air cooler, the mixture
temperature at altitude is hotter than the mixture in an unsupercharged
engine. It has been found that spark plugs with small electrodes soon
become incandescent and are themselves a contributing factor to preigni-
tion. Plugs with larger electrodes having adequate cooling surface over-
came this trouble. In a number vi cases where spark plugs with the
porcelain insulation were used, the porcelain cracked, pieces fell in the
engine cylinder and were blown out with the exhaust gases into the turbine
wheel and the pieces of porcelain striking the buckets moving at very high
velocity completely wrecked them. For this reason, mica plugs are used
on all turbo-supercharged engines.
The next serious difficulty was with the fuel systems. On the old
machines the pressure system was used, but as the engine was super-
charged and the pressure in the carburetor bowl increased, an excessive
pressure was required in the gas tank to force the fuel in the carburetor
against the supercharger pressure. Fuel pumps were then tried but it was
found that they would not work satisfactorily unless they were located
lower than the level of the fuel in the tank, as at high altitudes the fuel
would vaporize and could not be lifted to the level of the pump. The
present satisfactory fuel system consists of a gear pump driven by a
flexible shaft and located lower than the fuel tank. Fuel flows to the pump
by gravity and is pumped through a supercharger relief valve to the
carburetors. This relief valve consists of a spring loaded valve on which
is maintained the same air pressure as the supercharger maintains in the
carburetor. The valve therefore keeps a constant differential between fuel
in the feed line and in the carburetor float bowl.
The additional power output of a supercharged engine requires ap-
proximately 30 per cent increase in the radiating surface, for, although
the air temperature at altitudes is much lower than that at the ground, the
density of the air is so much lower that the cooling effect per square
foot of radiator surface decreases. Eighty degrees C. is an ideal operating
temperature for an airplane engine. If this temperature is maintained
at high altitudes, a point is reached where the water commences to boil
due to the lower atmospheric pressure. It is therefore necessary to seal the
entire cooling system and have a pressure relief valve which will not
open until a pressure greater than atmospheric is reached.
The torque of a supercharged engine is practically constant with increas-
ing altitude and as the propeller torque decreases with altitude, the propeller
will speed up. For this reason, a larger propeller must be used which holds
down the engine r.p.m. at the ground and allows it to speed up and main-
tain its normal r.p.m. at the designed altitude of the combined unit.


  p. 1999 (#943)                      #

1925)
1999
Professional Notes
In the earlier tests no suitable oxygen system was available and a small
hand controlled system was made up using compressed oxygen in bottles.
The pressure was reduced as through a Rego reducing valve, and the
oxygen delivered directly to the pilot's mouth through a flexible rubber
hose. This system is reliable and, although somewhat wasteful of oxygen,
it has not been replaced up to the present time . Ithough the Material Section
has achieved some success with a liquid oxygen system, which is more
pleasant to use than the compressed oxygen as there is no taste whatsoever.
In order to relieve the pilot of the necessity of continually watching his
supercharger operation, an automatic control has been devised which will
maintain sea level pressure at any altitude without attention on the pilot's
part. The first of these controls worked satisfactorily up to 10,000 to
12,000 ft., but was not sufficiently powerful to maintain constant adjust-
ment above that altitude. Tests are being carried on and it is quite possible
to build an automatic control in the light of our present knowledge which
will satisfactorily relieve the pilot of the necessity of continually adjusting
the supercharger.
In connection with the supercharger, two special instruments are used.
One is a differential fuel pressure gage which shows the difference in
pressure between the fuel in the feed line and in the carburetor float
chamber. The other is a pressure gage which s.'ows the supercharger air
pressure either in lb./sq. in. or in feet altitude. The former gage is now
replacing the latter type and the pilot by operating the supercharger control
maintains the carburetor pressure at sea level, or 14.7 lb. per sq. in.
The application of the supercharged engine to airplanes increased the
performance which it was possible to obtain. For pursuit work the first
installation was made on an Orenco having a 300 h.p. Hispano engine. The
ceiling of the ship unsupercharged was approximately 22,000 ft., and with
the supercharger, somewhat better than 33,000 ft. The ceiling of the
Martin Bomber without load has been raised from 14,000 ft. to ap-
proximately 28,000 ft. by means of the supercharger, while the ceiling with
full military load has been increased from 7,000 to better than 12,000 ft.
A DH4 with full military load and supercharger will reach an altitude of
28,000 ft. against approximately 18,000 ft. unsupercharged. It should be
noted, however, that all of these installations have been made on existing
airplanes, and that, with one exception, no airplanes have been designed
to take full advantage of the supercharged engine. It is therefore reasonable
to assume that even better results will be obtained when this is done. The
one exception the Kerber-Boulton C05, which was designed around the
supercharged engine, successfully broke the world's altitude records, carry-
ing weights of 250, 500 and 1,000 kg. In addition, it had a ceiling of around
34,000 ft. At the present time all new aviation engines are being designed
to accommodate either a gear driven or turbo supercharger and practically
all engines that are used in the Air Service from now on will be equipped
with some type of supercharger.
Inaugural Flight of Goodyear “Pilgrim,” World's Smallest
Lighter-than-air Craft
Aviation, 24 August, 1925.- The Pilgrim, the world's smallest airship
and the first commercial lighter-than-air craft to be inflated with helium,
was christened and sent on its inaugural flight in Akron, Ohio, July 18 by
its builders, the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company.
The little airship, designed for P. W. Litchfield, first vice president of
Goodyear, while intended for pleasure cruising, is regarded by the manu-
facturers as largely a demonstration ship and will be used in certain tests
and experimental work.


  p. 2000 (#944)                      #

2000
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The Pilgrim is 110 ſt. long, 45 ft. high, and has a capacity for 50,000 cu.
ít. of helium, being approximately one-fiftieth the size of the Zeppelin
Los Angeles.
Powered with a 60 h.p. Lawrence radial engine, the small air cruiser has
a maximum speed of almost 60 mi./hr. and a cruising radius of from 10 to
20 hr., the economy in fuel consumption being pronounced.
Besides the pilot and motor mechanic, facilities for the transportation
of two passengers are provided for in the streamlined cabin suspended
directly under the envelope and entirely enclosed.
A portable mooring mast has been devised which can be set up any-
where that 250 ft. of level ground is available, and attached to the mast
the airship will revolve with the wind. Other masts are also in the con-
struction stage in the Goodyear factory.
Mr. Litchfield believes that the future of this type ship may bring
mooring masts at country clubs and on private estates and even the holding
of airship regattas in the same way that motor boat and yachting clubs now
have similar events, bringing all the pleasures of yachting to those who live
inland.
The general use of these small airships is conditioned on helium. There
is plenty of the inflation gas available in the ground and Congress last year
authorized the sale of surplus helium for commercial use.
The helium supply in the past has been limited by government ap-
propriations but with a market for helium the government plant could
be kept in operation throughout the entire year making possible all the
helium commercial or private owners want.
The Pilgrim will be operated in the vicinity of Akron during the
remainder of the summer and early fall, Mr. Litchfield announced.
ENGINEERING
The World's Marine Engineering Situation
Marine Engineer and Motorship Builder, August, 1925.—Lloyd's Register
Shipbuilding Returns for the quarter ended June 30 show that the tonnage
under construction in Great Britain and Ireland-1,093,587 tons-is about
72,000 tons less than at the end of March, 1925, and about 423,000 tons
less than the tonnage building twelve months ago, and it should be pointed
out that the tonnage on which work was suspended at the end of June,
1925, amounts to 76,000 tons, as compared with only 52,000 tons at the end
of June, 1924. The average tonnage building during the twelve months
immediately preceding the war was 1,890,000 tons, i.e., 796,000 tons more
than the present total. A slight decrease is shown in the tonnage commenced
during the quarter, namely, 189,805 tons, as compared with 202,352 tons
during the first quarter of 1925, and the tonnage launched during the present
quarter-298,161 tons-is 40,959 tons lower than that for the previous three
months.
The tonnage of vessels now building in the world which are to be fitted
with internal-combustion engines amounts to 1,129,912 tons, while the
tonnage of steam vessels under construction is 1,212,525 tons. The motor
tonnage thus equals over 93 per cent of the steam tonnage, showing the
remarkable development which is taking place in the adoption of this system
of propulsion. The tonnage of motorships building at the end of June in
Great Britain and Ireland-399,070 tons-amounts to 58 per cent of the
steam tonnage under construction. In Denmark, Germany, Holland, Italy,
and Sweden the motor tonnage under construction greatly exceeds the
steam tonnage, the combined totals for these five countries being 216,257
tons of steamers and 645,600 tons of motorships. The world figures include
115 motorships each of between 5,000 and 10,000 tons ; five of between
10,000 and 15,000 tons; and seven of between 15,000 and 25,000 tons.


  p. 2001 (#945)                      #

1925)
2001
Professional Notes
MARINE ENGINES UNDER CONSTRUCTION IN THE WORLD*
This table shows the country of build, the type, number, and horsepower of engines (intended for the propulsion of
seagoing vessels) which are either under construction at the works or being installed on board vessels at the end of June, 1925.
Oil Engines
Total
Country of Build
Steam Engines
Reciprocating
Turbines
No. Indicated No. Shaft
Horsepower
Horsepower
No.1 Indicated
Horsepower
No. 1 Horsepower
201
158,114
274
C..........................
Great Britain and Ireland ..
Denmark......
France. ....
Germany...
Holland.....
Italy........
Japan........
Norway.......
Sweden .......
Switzerland....
United States...
Other countries ...
344,315
2,100
67,700
39,775
28,980
18,950
15,170
17,150
2,530
67,000
28,000
3,000
44,000
ha mal-Il www la
206,773
125,950
21,100
227,026
62,465
36,720
6,100
2,800
57,000
46,940
14,790
600
709,202
128,050
155,800
294,801
94,445
99,670
21,270
19,950
62,460
46,940
66,840
21,950
2,930
5,450
17,850
46,600
3,500
Total .......
323
559,970
|
353, 144
284
808,264
641.
1,721,37
* This being the first publication of a statistical table on these lines, it has not been possible to obtain in time complete information
particularly as regards steam engines for vessels of small tonnage building abroad and not classed with Lloyd's Register. The horsepower is
compiled from figures furnished by the engine makers.


  p. 2002 (#946)                      #

2002
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
For the first time since these returns have been issued by Lloyd's Register,
figures have been compiled showing the number and the horsepower of the
marine engines (intended for the actual propulsion of vessels) under con-
struction in the world. The new table, reproduced herewith, shows that the
total horsepower of the engines building or being installed on board vessels
at the end of June, 1925, amounted to 1,721,378 h.p., of which 709,202 h.p.
are building or were built in Great Britain and Ireland, 294,801 h.p. in
Germany, 155,800 h.p. in France, 128,050 h.p. in Denmark, and 433,525 h.p. in
other countries. These totals, as stated in the return, are not quite complete
as regards steam engines for the smaller vessels building abroad and not
classed with Lloyd's Register. Excluding engines of less than 500 h.p., the
average horsepower of each set of engines reaches 3,356 h.p., the average
for reciprocating steam engines being 1,995 h.p., for oil engines 4,027 h.D.,
and for steam turbines 10,387 11.p.
Tables Nos. 6 and 7 show:
The type of machinery used for the propulsion of vessels.
Particulars of the oil tankers, of the trawlers and other fishing vessels,
and of the steamers fitted for burning oil fuel.
The following summary will not be without interest :
The first table shows the great development which has taken place in the
use of steam turbine engines and of internal-combustion engines. There are
now 1,404 steamers of 9,100,274 tons fitted with turbine engines and 2,145
vessels (including auxiliary vessels) of 2,714,073 tons fitted with internal-
combustion engines, as compared with 730,000 tons and 220,000 tons re-
spectively in 1914. It may be stated that while during the last twelve
months the tonnage of steamers fitted with reciprocating steam engines has
actually decreased by about 152,000 tons, there has been an increase of
738,000 tons in the tonnage of motorships and of 305,000 tons in the tonnage
of vessels fitted with steam turbines.
An analysis of the type of machinery now employed shows that there are
now recorded in Lloyd's Register twenty-eight vessels with a total tonnage
of 440,000 tons, which are fitted with a combination of steam turbines and
reciprocating engines. Another interesting particular is that in the case of
thirty-six vessels, with a tonnage of 110,000 tons, a comparatively new
system of propulsion has been adopted: viz., electric motors connected to
the screw shaft, these motors being supplied with current from generators
which are driven either by steam turbines or oil engines. Of the 939
tankers (of 1,000 tons and upwards) with a total tonnage of 5,177,630
tons, 315 of 1,708,978 tons are registered in Great Britain and Ireland and
374 of 2,281,324 tons are registered in the United States. Of the 3,490
steamers of 17,804, 1 22 tons fitted for burning oil fuel, 730 of 4,679,695 tons
are registered in Great Britain and Ireland and 1,855 of 8,999,050 tons are
registered in the United States of America.
The figures in these two tables enable a comparison to be made between
the respective employment of coal and oil fuel at the present time as
compared with 1914.
1914
1925
Per Cent of Per Cent of
Total Gross Ton- Total Gross ton-
nage
nage
Sailing vessels and sea-going barges
8.06
Oil, etc., in internal-combustion en-
0.45
4.20
gines
Oil fuel for boilers ...,
2.65
27.54
Coal
64.76
3.50
88.84
100.00
100.00


  p. 2003 (#947)                      #

1925)
2003
Professional Notes
It will thus be seen that only 64.75 per cent of the tonnage of the
merchant marine now depends entirely upon coal, while in 1914 the per-
centage was nearly 89. The tables show the total tonnage of certain types
of vessels, which information would be most useful in estimating the
tonnage available for general cargo and passenger purposes. The tonnage
of the tankers of 1,000 tons gross and upwards amounts to 5,178,000 tons,
and in addition there are some 50,000 tons of vessels of less than 1,000 tons
each. The tonnage of trawlers and other fishing vessels amounts to 796,000
tons.
The Propelling Machinery Controversy
The Shipbuilder, August, 1925.—While there has been an increasing
tendency to regard the internal-combustion engine as the prime mover of
the future for ship propulsion and the percentage of new tonnage equipped
with this type of engine continues to increase, there is still a large volume
of opinion which holds that the possibilities of the steam engine are not
exhausted and that improved steam installations will eventually prove at
least as good as, if not better than, oil engines. The latest phase of the
controversy began with the paper read by Sir John H. Biles before the
spring meetings of the Institution of Naval Architects on the relative
commercial efficiency of internal-combustion engines and steam engines for
high-speed passenger vessels. In this paper the author stated that his own
investigations as to the relative merits of these different methods of provid-
ing power to propel ships did not confirm a statement made by Sir
Fortescue Flannery, and endorsed by Lord Bearsted, that the use of
Diesel machinery for marine propulsion would become so common that only
for special purposes would the steam engine be able to hold its own. In
the paper referred to, Sir John outlined proposals for geared turbines
taking steam at 500 lb. pressure and 700° temperature from water-tube
boilers, and gave figures for the intermediate liner and the high-speed
channel types which showed considerable commercial economy for the
proposed steam installations compared with Diesel machinery. For these
high-pressure and high-temperature proposals, Sir John quoted the au-
thority of Sir Charles Parsons. These innovations have been successfully
introduced on land; and the Parsons Marine Steam Turbine Company have
since developed the proposals for Parsons high-efficiency installations to
cover other types, as, for instance, an installation of 5,000 S.H.P. for a
14-knot vessel, as mentioned in the last issue of this journal.
The proposals of Sir John Biles led to an animated correspondence with
Lord Bearsted and Sir Fortescue Flannery published in the Times. When
authorities differ so widely it is difficult to come to any conclusion, and in
the present stage of development of the Diesel engine it is evident that no
hard and fast decision can be reached. In the newspaper correspondence
Sir John adhered to the figures which he gave before the Institution of
Naval Arcchitects for the proposed improved steam engine, which, he stated,
had not so far been challenged, and which seemed to show to some that
the steam engine was still a more economical instrument for the propulsion
of ships. When this fact was fully appreciated, Sir John added, it would
inevitably follow that the production of Diesel engines would decrease.
He held that the advantage the steam engine possessed over the Diesel was
that it was much lighter and cheaper, while the advantage the Diesel type
had was that it required less weight of fuel.
In endeavoring to hold the balance between the disputants, it must not be
overlooked that the proposed high-efficiency steam system has yet to under-
go the test of actual experience under service conditions at sea. It does not
necessarily follow that satisfactory land practice will be equally satisfac-
tory at sea. Sir Charles Parsons himself condemned electrical propelling


  p. 2004 (#948)                      #

2004
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
machinery as unsuitable for marine purposes. Moreover, water-tube boilers
have now been available for use on merchant ships for many years, and their
use with the high pressures now proposed.
To revert to the case of the Diesel engine, it must be borne in mind
that this type is of comparatively recent adoption and has not the history of
the steam engine behind it. If the possibilities of steam have not yet been
exhausted, it is likewise true that the Diesel engine is as yet more or less
in its initial stage. Rapid as its development has been, the field for improve-
ment is still great, and with the experience now available there is no doubt
that in the next few years the Diesel engine will prove a still more
formidable rival. Designers of Diesel engines are working with the
object of reducing weight and cost to those of steam installations, and it
is only a question of time before they succeed, as the fundamental advantage
of fuel economy possessed by the Diesel engine is too important to lose,
not only in regard to the beneficial effect on ship design, but on the con-
servation of oil supplies. The fact that this country has to draw its oil-
fuel supplies from abroad is a disadvantage so far as the price of oil com-
pared with that of coal is concerned.
With the position as it is, there is room for both the steam engine and
the Diesel engine. In short-distance trades the steamship is a better
commercial proposition at the moment. In the long-distance trades the
Diesel engine, even in its present stage of development, shows a marked
commercial superiority. In the case of the large, high-powered passenger
ships now being equipped with Diesel engines, experience in service alone
will show whether they are superior to steamships. It would appear that
the development of the Diesel engine for this type of vessel will probably
be in the direction of faster running units in conjunction with gearing, as
has been the case with steam turbines. For the highest powers the steam
turbine in conjunction with gearing still holds the field; and if the next
development of such powers is higher steam pressures and temperatures, a
new phase of marine engineering will have been inaugurated. Such a
development, however, will not stop the progress of the Diesel engine, as its
advantages in many respects are so marked; and the friendly rivalry now
existing between designers of steam and Diesel engines augurs well for
the improvement of both.
Selectina Forced-Feed and Motor-Cylinder Oils for Navy Use
By J. G. O'Neill, Chief Chemist, Engineering Experiment Station, An-
napolis, Md., Power, 4 August, 1925.-In order to determine whether a
lubricating oil has been properly refined, it is necessary to subject it to a
large number of tests. Since crude oils from different sources have
different properties, so also do the refined oils from these crudes have
different properties.
To judge properly of the qualities of lubricating oils one must be
familiar with the characteristics of crude and refined oils from various
sources. When this information is available, all tests conducted on lubricat-
ing oils are of value, but lacking such information, not many of these are
of much worth. In other words, capable testing of lubricating oils is
comparable to the intelligent testing of any other engineering material; ac-
count must be taken of the limitations of the material and its suitability for
the purpose intended.
For instance, consider the method of testing forced-feed oils for Navy
use. The oil is first given a thorough chemical examination to show its
freedom from any of the chemicals used in the refining process, its freedom
from organic acids and corrosive compounds, the absence of tarry or
asphaltic matters, the absence of constituents which cause it to emulsify


  p. 2005 (#949)                      #

1925)
2005
Professional Notes
with steam and the absence of excessive quantities of unsaturated com-
pounds, which would tend toward the formation of asphaltic matter or
sludge by oxidation during use.
The physical properties show the source of the oil, whether or not it
has the proper flash and fire points, its property of remaining liquid under
different ranges of temperature, and its ability to maintain a lubricating
film under various conditions of temperature and pressure. The non-
emulsifying or demulsifying properties of the oil with distilled water, salt
water, caustic solution and boiling distilled water are determined in order
to find the resistance of the oil to the formation of emulsions with these
solutions, should it become contaminated with any of them when used aboard
ship.
An endurance test is also conducted, which is equivalent to practically
1,000 hours' service aboard ship; this gives the frictional properties of the
oil, an exact knowledge of the changes which the oil undergoes in service,
the tendency, if any, to gum or sludge, and information of the ability of
the oil to maintain a lubricating film under the most severe conditions it
could possibly meet in service. In addition to these the oil is given a
practical test aboard ship in order to know positively that it is suitable in
all respects for the intended purpose, and also to test the ability of the
refiner to deliver large quantities of the same grade of oil.
Practically the same procedure is carried out in the testing of motor
cylinder or aviation engine oils, with the exception that the practical test
of aviation oil is conducted on a 400-h.p. Liberty aviation engine, mounted
on a test stand. The test is run for five hours with full throttle opening
and all engineering data taken. The remaining used oil is given a complete
examination after the run; from the condition of the used oil the perform-
ance of the engine and the specific consumption of gasoline and oil, the
suitability of the oil is determined.
The choice of a lubricating oil is dependent on a number of conditions:
namely, the temperature of operation, bearing pressure, journal rubbing
speed, clearances of bearings, skill of operator, condition of machinery,
possibility of contamination or dilution of the oil in service, vibration of
machinery and the ability to maintain oil pressure.
In forced-feed lubrication there is formed a film of oil between the
bearing metal and the rotating shaft and the friction generated is between
the molecules of the oil as they tend to slide over each other; very little
friction is due to metallic contact of the shaft and the bearing metal. The
viscous lubricating oils give a thicker lubricating film than the less viscous.
They require more power to shear the oil film and consequently produce
more friction and heat.
The proper viscosity should be that which is only slightly more than is
necessary to prevent metallic contact so that the power consumed by friction
is at a minimum. Since the viscosity of mineral oils varies with the
temperature, the temperature of operation in forced-feed systems controlled
by a cooling means should be sufficiently high so that the friction is low,
yet that the oil has sufficient body to maintain a perfect lubricating film.
The viscous or heavy oils produce a thick lubricating film, and it is for
this reason more difficult to squeeze the heavy oils from between bearing
surfaces. Such oils are used where the bearing pressures are high, the
clearances large or the temperature of operation high.
In a high-speed bearing it is necessary to use a thin oil because it gives
the minimum of friction and because the friction generated by the high
rubbing speed of the journal would be abnormally increased by the use of
a heavy oil. In high-speed bearings the bearing pressure is generally light,
which permits a thin oil.


  p. 2006 (#950)                      #

2006
Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Conditions which favor oils of slightly higher viscosity for marine
practice than for shore practice are, the losses from leakage and splashing
decreasing with the increasing viscosity of the oil used, the greater possi-
bility of the presence of vibration which necessitate the presence of a
thicker cushioning film and the great diversity of service that one grade of
oil is called upon to give since it is objectionable to carry a supply of many
different grades.
The care used in the manufacture of the machinery and in its installation
plays an important part in the choice of the proper lubricating oil. It has
been found that very carefully manufactured and installed machinery may
be lubricated with a much thinner oil than would otherwise be possible.
Invariably, inferiority of machinery, poorly installed machinery and
machinery allowed to get in bad condition require the use of heavier grades
of lubricating oils.
Forced-feed and motor-cylinder oils for Navy use are classified as
follows:
Viscosity, Saybolt
Class Universal at. 130° F. Used for Lubrication of
Light .............
100-115
Turbines (bearing only) turbo-
generators up to 100 kw.,
dynamos and sight-feed gaso-
line engines.
Medium ......
125-145
Turbines, turbo-generators, 300
and 500 kw., reduction gears
of small turbines, blowers and
general machinery.
Heavy .......
180-200
Main engine turbines of battle-
ships, and destroyers, reduc-
tion gears, reciprocating en-
gines with forced-feed lubri-
cation.
Extra heavy .....
240-260
Diesel engines of submarines.
Ultra heavy ...... 300-320
High-power and high-speed
gasoline engines with forced-
feed lubrication.
Viscosity at 210° F.
Aviation, winter... 75-85
Aviation engines operating in
cold climates.
Aviation, summer. 90-100
Aviation engines operating in
warm climates.
Forced-feed oils in use increase in viscosity due to the evaporation of the
lowest in viscosity. This is because each of these oils is composed of a
number of different oils of widely varying viscosities and boiling points.
The presence of a large percentage of unsaturated compounds in the oil
will also tend to increase the viscosity of the oil during use, owing to the
fact that these compounds break up and oxidize, producing compounds of
greater viscosity. Unsaturated compounds such as acetylene are so called
because of characteristics of chemical formula indicating instability.
All lubricating oils in service darken in color, due to oxidation of the
oils and the production of asphaltic resins or asphaltic matter. These dark-
colored compounds are produced by the oxygen of the air or oxygen in the
oil itself acting on the unsaturated compounds under condition of heat and
pressure. They are precipitated from the oil by the addition of 88° Baumé
gasoline.
Recently, a mineral lubrication oil of viscosity of 85 sec. at 130° F. was
subjected to the 100-hour test in the endurance testing machine. It con-


  p. 2007 (#951)                      #

1925)
2007
Professional Notes
tained 38 per cent of unsaturated compounds. At the end of the test the
oil was examined and found to contain 19 per cent asphaltic matter by
volume insoluble in 88° Baumé gasoline.
A well-refined mineral oil of the same viscosity, containing not over
8 per cent of unsaturated compounds and subjected to the same test, will
not show more than a trace of matter insoluble in 88° Baumé gasoline. The
asphaltic matter produced in forced-feed oils during use does not tend to
sludge out to as great an extent as that produced in motor cylinder oils.
Sludge produced in motor cylinder oils consists largely of free carbon
either from decomposition of the lubricating oil, or partial combustion of the
fuel and cracked products from the lubricating oil. The carbon is insoluble
in the lubricating oil and settles out; also the oils are contaminated with
gasoline, which exerts a precipitating action on the heavier asphaltic bodies
in the oil and ends to throw them out as sludge.
Forced-feed oil show considerable acidity after long use because the
asphaltic resins produced by oxidation are acid in nature. Motor cylinder
oils are not subject to such a long period of use as forced-feed oils and do
not show the presence in the used oil of as great acidity.
Well-refined forced-feed oils retain their non-emulsifying properties for
a long period after being put into use, provided the lubricating oil system
is clean and all bearings are well fed with oil. Motor cylinder oils, however,
in service rapidly become emulsifying owing to the finely divided condition
of the insoluble matter in the oil.
There is no advantage in the addition of animal oils, vegetable oils or
fatty acids to forced-feed oils, and there are many disadvantages caused by
the emulsifying or corrosive properties of these materials. Neither are
there any good effects from their use in motor cylinder oils, with possibly
the exception of oils of too heavy viscosity, when they may assist the spread-
ing properties of the oil and render slightly better lubrication.
Graphite should not be used, since it greatly assists in the formation of
sludge in both forced-feed and motor cylinder oils and does not reduce the
frictional properties of the oils.
It is believed that with improvement in operation and design of motor
cylinders the same methods of testing and choosing lubricating oils will
apply to motor-cylinder oils as at present apply to forced-feed oils. In the
future, a comparatively few grades of mineral oil may be used for lubricat-
ing purposes instead of the innumerable brands and grades in use at the
present time.
Navy to Make Tests with Pulverized Coal
The Nautical Gazette, 22 August, 1925.-Exhaustive tests to determine
the feasibility of using pulverized coal as marine boiler fuel are to be made
shortly at the League Island Navy Yard under the auspices of the Navy
Department, Bureau of Mines and Shipping Board. The plan for the tests
has been recommended by the Fuel Conservation Committee of the Shipping
Board and is practically certain of adoption, as it is known that all three
departments are anxious to have the trial made. The only question remain-
ing to be settled is as to who shall furnish the coal, of which about 500 tons
will be required for the proposed tests.
It is estimated that the use of pulverized coal will mean savings of from
10 to 15 per cent and possibly even more from present costs of bunker coal
and it is stated that if the tests work out as well as anticipated the intro-
duction of the new fuel will be one of the greatest steps taken in many
years toward the economical operation of ships. It is understood that
burners of several different types are to be used in the proposed tests.
Pulverized coal is now being used very successfully and economically in
large power plants on shore and in these cases a pronounced saving has been


  p. 2008 (#952)                      #

2008
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
made as compared with existing mechanical stokers firing with the ordinary
sizes of coal. Accordingly, it is expected that a still greater saving will be
shown as compared with hand firing as now practiced on coal-burning ships.
Shipowners are greatly interested in the possibilities of the new develop-
ment and it is expected that an invitation will be extended to private ship-
owners to have representatives of their engineering departments witness the
tests and satisfy themselves of the practicability and economy of the new
system.
. MERCHANT MARINE
Fleet Corporation and Shipping Board Affairs
The Nautical Gazette, 22 August, 1925.-Since President Palmer of the
Fleet Corporation has been permitted by the Shipping Board to take the
initiative in conducting negotiations for the sale of ships real progress has
been made in the disposition of the tonnage. It was only about a month ago
that President Palmer was given this authority but more has been accom-
plished in liquidating the government's shipping properties in that time than
during the past two years. The managing operators of government vessels
have responded with alacrity to President Palmer's hint that they acquire the
ships and services allocated to them, and this week the sale of two of these
services has been consummated. The Carolina Company of Charleston,
South Carolina, has purchased the American Palmetto Line, in which six
ships are involved, and Henry Herberman, president of the Export Steam-
ship Company, has purchased the American Export Line in which service
eighteen ships are operated. The purchasers are to be congratulated on
their action, for they have demonstrated in a practical manner their faith
in American ability to operate American ships in foreign trade. By ac-
quiring these ships and services they have given strength to the American
merchant marine. In selling these services the Shipping Board has acted
wisely, for by so doing the day of the government's withdrawal from the
shipping business has been brought nearer. Other operators are negotiating
for the purchase of their services and it is to be hoped that these negotia-
tions will be brought to a successful conclusion. It has been clearly proved
that the managing operators are the potential purchasers of government
tonnage and the Carolina Company and the Export Steamship Corporation
have set an excellent example for the other operators to follow. We wish
the Carolina Company and the Export Steamship Corporation every success
in their undertaking to operate privately owned American ships in foreign
trade, and hope that their highest expectations will be realized. ,
These are great days for the American Merchant Marine—the days for
which American shipowners have been waiting. The government's obsolete
ships are being sold for scrap, its active ships and services are being trans-
ferred to private hands and its miscellaneous shipping properties are being
disposed of. In other words, the government is rapidly getting out of the
shipping business and the Shipping Board is trying to carry out the provi-
sions of the Merchant Marine Act. Despite all this there are some dis-
gruntled persons who are now beginning to oppose the sale of the ships
and services. So far as we are aware there has not been a single commer-
cial organization in the country which has supported the policy of govern-
ment ownership and operation of vessels. The opinion has been unanimous
that the government should withdraw from its shipping activities. Obviously,
if the ships cannot be sold the government must continue to own and
operate them, and it is surprising that the steps which are now being taken
to liquidate the government's shipping properties and to end the govern-
ment's participation in the shipping industry should be criticized. It goes
without saying that certain individuals and organizations have profited finan-
cially from the operation of government vessels, and it is only natural that


  p. 2009 (#953)                      #

1925)
2009
Professional Notes
these should resent the removal of this source of profit. But, we cannot
understand why the Middle West Foreign Trade Committee should entertain
and express the fear that the board's present ship sales policy is likely to
result in the discontinuance of the services. It is clearly set forth in the
contracts of sale that the purchaser must guarantee to operate the vessels
on the specified routes for a term of years and there is no reason to believe
that the buyers will violate the terms of their contracts. Furthermore, the
Shipping Board has announced its intention of protecting the private lines
from rate cutting competition by foreign lines. If foreign competitors
start rate wars with the object of putting the new private American lines
out of business the Shipping Board will take back the lines sold and operate
them until Congress considers the question of protecting American ships.
There is thus small likelihood of any of the young American companies
being driven off the sea by unfair foreign competition. The fears of the
Middle West Foreign Trade Committee and others are really groundless,
and the Shipping Board should be commended rather than condemned for
its present ship sales policy. The Board has no alternative but to sell its
ships. Its hand is being forced by the administration's economy program,
Its appropriation is being cut this year to a point where it cannot possibly
operate all its vessels and keep them within the appropriation. The board
is selling its ships for economy's sake.
To President Palmer of the Fleet Corporation is due the credit for placing
the government's shipping interests on a more business-like basis. When
he assumed office nearly two years ago he began to reduce expenses, and he
has carried on this work ever since with amazing success. He has cut down
the personnel, he has instituted more satisfactory and cheaper methods of
financing, he has devised ways and means whereby the managing agents
could show better voyage results, and he has reorganized the staff of the
Fleet Corporation in this country and abroad until today the organization
is more efficient than ever it has been. It was he who worked out and car-
ried into effect the scheme for consolidating the government's services
whereby the number of operators and active ships could be reduced without
impairing any of the services or the government's interests. Through Ad-
miral Palmer's clever handling of the Fleet Corporation and the managing
operators the Shipping Board will come very near living within its appro-
priation of $24,000,000 this year, which will be a saving of approximately
$10,000,000. Everyone will agree that this was no mean undertaking and
that high praise is due Admiral Palmer for these excellent results. In the
face of these achievements, certain parties are attacking Admiral Palmer
and questioning his motives. The Chamber of Commerce of Portland,
Oregon, has a foreign-trade committee whose chairman is Frank L. Shull.
According to press reports this Mr. Shull addressed the members of the
chamber a few days ago and took occasion to assail Admiral Palmer. The
dispatches state that Mr. Shull charged that Admiral Palmer is dominated
by British shipping interests who are attempting to throttle America's new
steamship lines and concentrate all the trade in the large ports controlled
by their organizations. Being in a public position, it is natural that Presi-
dent Palmer should be open to criticism, but such an attack as this is as
unfair and as unsportsmanlike as it is unwarranted. The results of Ad-
miral Palmer's stewardship speak for themselves. He stepped into the
Fleet Corporation affairs at a critical time and has skillfully steered the
government's shipping affairs from the rocks of disaster. He has accom-
plished more in solving the government's shipping problems than any of his
predecessors, and the future operation and care of the government's ships
can be safely left in his hands. He has the confidence of American shipping
A


  p. 2010 (#954)                      #

2010
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
men, who know something of the problems he has had to face and of the
masterly way in which he has solved them, and that is all that matters.
The government needs Admiral Palmer's services now more than ever
before. The Budget Bureau has served notice on the Shipping Board that
the estimates for the next fiscal year for the operation of the government's
ships must be cut to $15,000,000. This is a drastic reduction and fears are
expressed that the board cannot get along with this small appropriation.
The commissioners estimate that $22,000,000 will be required, but Admiral
Palmer is convinced that the present number of ships can be kept in opera-
tion on an appropriation of $18,000,000. If the president of the Fleet Cor-
poration can cut down expenses so that he can come within $3,000,000 of
the appropriation then his real worth will be proved. Chairman O'Connor
of the Shipping Board has expressed the opinion that if the appropriation
is cut to $15,000,000 it will be found necessary to tie up the Leviathan and
the other vessels operated by the United States Lines. Such action would
be disastrous and would greatly undermine America's prestige on the ocean
and should be avoided at all costs. Therefore, if Admiral Palmer can save
the situation and prevent the withdrawal of any vessels on an appropriation
of $18,000,000 he should be given a free hand, Admiral Palmer expects to
dispose of several more of the government's services, and by so doing and
eliminating the losses to the government on these services he will be able
to keep the Fleet Corporation's expenses within the reduced appropriation.
The Leviathan must not be tied up, and rather than resort to such a meas-
ure, the Shipping Board will surely give Admiral Palmer the opportunity
to carry into effect his plans for reducing expenses.
Motor Passenger Liners
The Marine Engineer and Motor Ship Builder, August, 1925.---Another
milestone in the history of the motorship was reached on Tuesday, July 2,
when Harland and Wolff, Ltd., launched from their Belfast yard the large
passenger and mail liner Asturias, which is intended for the Southampton-
South America service of the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company. This
vessel, when completed early next year, will have the distinction of being
the first British motorship employed on the South American service, and
she will also be at the time of her completion the largest vessel in the service
of her owners. In all probability the honor of being the first motorship to
trade across the Atlantic will be divided equally between the Asturias and
the Gripsholm, at present completing at the Walker Shipyard of Sir W. G.
Armstrong, Whitworth and Company, for the Swedish-America Line,
Gothenburg, but in both cases the type of propelling machinery is the same
although the more powerful units are fitted in the Asturias. The only large
passenger and mail liner at present on service is the trans-Pacific Aorangi
of 18,500 tons gross, and she is propelled by single-acting engines of two-
stroke cycle type driving four lines of shafting. Both the Gripsholm and
the Asturias will be twin-screw vessels, and their propelling machinery will
be of Burmeister and Wain four-stroke cycle double-acting type.
For many years it was considered not only by antagonists of the internal-
combustion engines, but also by some of its strongest protagonists, that the
production of a practical double-acting Diesel engine was a very difficult
feat to accomplish, if not an impossibility, and it reflects great credit on
both designers and constructors of these engines that practical sea-going
units have now been evolved. Antagonists of the double-acting Diesel engine
said that it would be impossible to evolve an engine which would operate
satisfactorily on the under side of the cylinder and that great trouble would
be experienced owing to the fact that the piston rod would necessarily pierce
the bottom cylinder cover. Some experimenters set out to overcome this


  p. 2011 (#955)                      #

1925]
2011
Professional Notes
difficulty by constructing a forked connecting rod, so that the under side of
piston, to all intents and purposes, operated exactly the same as the top
side of the piston. These experimenters went further than the experimental
stage and produced an extremely successful practical working engine. Other
people, among whom were Burmeister and Wain and their licensees, decided
that it was perfectly reasonable and possible to get an engine to work with
the piston rod piercing the bottom cylinder cover, and the difficulties of
combustion space were overcome by arranging what is virtually a space
extraneous to the cylinder itself, in which all the valves work. That is,
broadly, the principle upon which the Burmeister and Wain four-stroke cycle
double-acting engine works. It cannot be criticized on the score of compli-
cation, since there is only one camshaft at mid-cylinder height, and that is
fitted with a double set of cams (i.e., two groups, one for top and one for
bottom) which drive, through push rods, the valve levers for top and bot-
tom. Reversal is carried out in the ordinary way by shifting the camshaft
in a fore-and-aft direction. The Gripsholm is fitted with two sets of six-
cylinder double-acting engines of this type, but the Asturias has two sets of
eight-cylinder engines, and when completed she will be the highest-powered
twin-screw motorship afloat, her engines developing collectively a maximum
of about 20,000 i.h.p. In conjunction with this main machinery installation.
electric auxiliaries are to be fitted, and with the exception of a small boiler
which is intended to drive a small emergency air compressor and to generate
steam for cooking purposes, and so forth, there will be no steam in the
ship at all.
The South American trade is considered one of particular suitability for
motorship operation, and the Hamburg-South American Line, for example,
already maintains a passenger and cargo service from Hamburg to the
River Plate, with the Monte Sormiento and Monte Olivia, two well-equipped
vessels, which are propelled by Diesel machinery of approximately 7,000
i.h.p.; the former, it is interesting to recall, is driven by trunk piston engines
operating two screws through mechanical reduction gearing. The Asturias
is one of a series of large motor liners building at Belfast for the Royal
Mail Steam Packet Company, and the Union-Castle Line, and in the minds
of many far-thinking people these vessels appear to usher in a definitely
new era in marine engineering. Whether this is an exaggeration remains
to be seen, but the construction and completion of these vessels certainly does
point to the fact that the double-acting Diesel engine is rapidly coming into
its own. Whether all large ships of the future will be propelled by double-
acting Diesel engines of four-stroke cycle type is a matter which at the
present it is rather difficult to say. There are many enthusiasts for the two-
stroke Diesel engine of this type, and certainly it has a great number of
advantages, but what the shipowner has to consider is reliability and first
cost, and the engine which is definitely more reliable, and, with that relia-
bility, cheaper than others, is the one which in the long run will unques-
tionably prove the favorite.
The Motor-driven Mail and Passenger Ship "Asturias"
The Shipbuilder, August, 1925.—The launch of the Royal Mail Steam
Packet Company's twin-screw motorship Asturias from the East Yard of
Messrs. Harland and Wolff, Ltd., Belfast, on July 7, was an event of out-
standing importance in the annals of British shipbuilding and marine engi-
neering, as the vessel is the largest and most powerful motorship afloat, and
she will also be one of the first propelled by double-acting oil engines to
take up her regular service.


  p. 2012 (#956)                      #

2012
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Intended for the South American trade of her owners, the ship complies
with all the requirements of the Board of Trade and Spanish laws. The
leading particulars are as follows:
Length B.P.
655ft. Sin.
Breadth moulded ......
78ft. oin.
Depth moulded .........
45ft. oin.
Gross tonnage, about ....
22,000
Passengers (1st, 2nd and 3rd) and crew.
1,700
Indicated horse-power ..
20,000
The vessel has a straight stem and cruiser stern, with lofty deck erec-
tions amidships. Eleven watertight bulkheads divide the hull into twelve
main compartments. The double bottom is continuous fore and aft, and is
arranged for the carriage of fresh water or water ballast.
The first-class main staircase forward, of the double spiral type, extends
through six decks, and from the orlop deck to the top of the skylight is
about 60 ft. in height. Communicating with the swimming bath on the
orlop deck, it mounts deck by deck to the social hall on E deck, passing
en route the entrance to the dining saloon on A deck, the lounge entrance
on B deck (at which level embarkation and disembarkation take place), and
C deck entrance, where a shop is installed. Upon the next level, D deck,
is situated the inquiry bureau. A similar staircase at the after end of the
accommodation gives access to other apartments, such as the smoking room,
winter garden, children's playroom, etc.
The first-class dining saloon, in the style of the French Empire, is 94 ft.
long by 74 ft. broad, and is planned with a central hall 60 ft. by 40 ft by
17 ft. high, occupying two decks in height, while the remainder is one deck
high. Seating accommodation is arranged for 412 passengers at tables for
numbers varying from two to twelve.
The main portion of the social hall, which is of Georgian character, rises
to a height of about 19 ft. At the forward end a stage has been introduced
for theatrical and other entertainments, and the whole of the floor is of
polished oak parquet to facilitate dancing.
The lounge is based on the state apartments at Houghton House, Nor.
folk, in Kent's middle period.
The reading and writing room is painted white in the style of the Robert
Adam's work at Harewood, Yorkshire.
The first-class smoking room, in the William and Mary period, is pan-
elled throughout in cedarwood after the rooms at Belton House, Lincoln-
shire.
The walls of the winter garden, on the top deck, are in alternate hori-
zontal bands of red and white in stone finish in the Spanish Moresque style
of Cordova.
The swimming bath is in the Pompeian style, with marble and tile floors
and red majolica columns round the bath. It is planned in two heights,
the upper one with dressing boxes on a broad balcony. The bath pond is
29 ft. long by 17 ft. broad and 8 ft. deep.
The children's room, on F deck, is laid out on the lines of a Kate Green-
away cottage and garden.
There are four main 400-kw. Diesel-driven generators; also one of
75 kw., placed above the margin line, for use at any time the main genera-
tors are out of action. There are some 4,000 lights in all distributed
throughout the vessel. A feature of the ship is the ample ventilation, there
being over fifty large fans for delivering cold air to the accommodation, in
addition to which there are over 500 cabin and ceiling fans throughout the
staterooms and public rooms. The heating throughout is electric, there


  p. 2013 (#957)                      #

1925]
2013
Professional Notes
being some 500 heaters in the accommodation. Electricity is also employed
in the galley ranges, hospitals and barbers' shops.
The whole of the auxiliary machinery in the engine room is electrically
driven, including three maneuvering compressors each of 180 b.h.p. In addi-
tion to these, the refrigerating plant consists of two compressors, each
driven by a 110-b.h.p. motor, together with electrically-driven circulating
pumps and fans in connection therewith.
The pumps for supplying the hydraulic cranes are also placed in the
machinery space, and are each of 110 h.p.
On the decks the electrical equipment includes a 135-h.p. warping winch,
two 150-h.p. capstans, and a 136-h.p. windlass, together with the motors for
the electric-hydraulic steering gear.
Seven electrically-operated lifts and hoists are installed, as well as a
complete system of bells and telephones.
The propelling machinery, constructed by the shipbuilders at Belfast, con-
sists of two Harland B. & W. eight-cylinder, four-stroke cycle, double-
acting Diesel engines, which are the highest powered units yet constructed
for marine propulsion, each engine being capable of developing 10,000 i.h.p.
at 115 r.p.m. The cylinders have each a bore of 33 in, and a piston stroke
of 59 in.
Compressed air for fuel injection is provided from three-stage air com-
pressors, mounted in tandem at the fore end of each engine and driven off
an extension of the crankshaft. The engines have forced lubrication
throughout, and the cylinder jackets are cooled with fresh water, oil being
used for piston-cooling.
Maneuvering air at 25 atmospheres is stored in six steel reservoirs, the
latter being charged by three-stage electrically-driven air compressors.
As stated in the description of the electrical equipment, four 400-kw.
electric-generating sets are fitted, each driven by a four-cylinder, four-
stroke cycle, single-acting Diesel engine.
All the engine-room auxiliaries are driven by independent electric motors,
but for emergency use a small steam-driven compressor is fitted.
Two oil-fired vertical boilers are installed for generating steam for cook-
ing purposes, and so forth.
It is interesting to add that a sister ship of the Asturias, namely the
Alcantara, is being built for the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company; while
on an adjoining berth there is also under construction a motor liner of
similar dimensions, named the Carnarvon Castle, for the Union-Castle Mail
Steamship Company, Ltd.
The Flettner Rudder of the Motorship “Sorrento”
The Shipbuilder, August, 1925.—The single-screw motorship, Sorrento,
which is equipped with a Flettner rudder of the underhung type, as illus-
trated, has recently undergone satisfactory steering trials on the River Elbe.
This vessel, which has a deadweight carrying capacity of about 2,700 tons
and a horsepower of about 1,050, has been built to the order of the Ham-
burg shipowners, Rob. M. Sloman, Jr., and Company, for the Mediterranean
service.
According to a report signed by the owner's representatives on the trials,
the steering proved a complete success, it being possible for one man to hold
the vessel on its course quite comfortably by hand. In altering course, the
rudder responded in a very remarkable manner, without any unnecessary
effort being exerted on the hand steering wheel. Turning circles were made
both to port and starboard, and were estimated to have a diameter of only
twice the length of the ship. Furthermore, while steaming down the river
at full speed, the helm was put hard over, so as to bring the ship practically
across the stream. The ship was immediately brought back on her course


  p. 2014 (#958)                      #

2014
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
without in any way reducing the speed. These difficult maneuvers convinced
everyone on board as to the steering efficiency possible with the Flettner
rudder.
The report draws special attention to the tests carried out at slow speeds,
particularly in regard to the steering of the vessel after shutting down the
engines. While entering Hamburg with the tide, or, in other words, with
the current running in the same direction as the ship, and notwithstanding

THE FLETTNER RUDDER OF THE MOTORSHIP "SORRENTO,"
SEEN FROM STARBOARD
the fact that the wind was adverse, the vessel was still capable of being
steered for seven minutes after the engines had stopped; that is to say,
going absolutely dead slow. Furthermore, it was possible to bring the ship
right into the harbor and up to the quayside without any assistance from
tugs.
The Flettner rudder control gear in the wheelhouse, the report continues,
was absolutely noiseless and gave entire satisfaction.


  p. 2015 (#959)                      #

1925]
2015
Professional Notes
MISCELLANEOUS
Combat Methods of the Japanese
By Colonel C. E. Kilbourne, C. A. C., The Coast Artillery Journal,
August, 1925.—To those who would appreciate the basic causes of the
success or the failure of a campaign no royal road can be pointed out. The
study of a nation's doctrines of war, of her field service and drill regula-
tions is valuable but not conclusive. If accepted at face value these may
lead to erroneous conclusions, that, in turn might lead to erroneous action
on the battlefield. Two nations may announce the offensive, the objective,
and cooperation as being the principles most important to insure success of
an engagement, but their interpretation of these terms may be quite differ-
ent. Again, two nations may state that the infantry is the primary arm, one
expecting to attack with the bayonet under cover of such artillery support
as may be obtainable, the other expecting to shatter the enemy with
artillery fire, using the infantry to mop up and occupy the position so gained.
The relation between distinctive combat methods and announced doctrines
can be learned only by a detailed study of campaigns in which the student
is willing to examine all orders and decisions and to trace the effect of these
down to the smallest unit. This will frequently indicate the persistence of
certain methods and principles in spite of character of terrain, of develop-
ment in mechanical means of warfare and of enemy reaction. It is on such
a detailed study that the following notes on the Japanese army are based.
Doubtless selected instances may appear to contradict conclusions drawn,
but it is believed the impressions conveyed are, on the whole, reliable.
As to organization we know the larger features but are in doubt as to
details. The Japanese endeavor to keep their organization secret and ques-
tions are met with polite evasion. The following, therefore, is not to be
taken as absolutely accurate.
The Japanese discard the army corps, building the field army direct from
divisions. As with us, the G. H. Q. directs the armies, and, in the Russo-
Japanese War, continued this direction successfully with a number of armies
our present doctrine would lead us to believe so great as to demand the
formation of army groups. Their average of three divisions to an army
gives the field army approximately the numerical strength of our typical
army corps, but it is, in conception, and by the permanent assignment of
army troops, essentially an echelon for independent operations.
The Japanese division differs from that of any other great power. Re-
taining the square formation—two brigades each of two regiments—for the
infantry, their artillery consists of a single regiment of three battalions. In
rifle (bayonet) power it is the strongest of all; in artillery and automatic
fire the weakest. A regiment of cavalry, of about the strength of our
squadron, is assigned. There is no organic air service. The division is
complete as to engineers, communication troops and trains. Numerically
it is something less than 85 per cent of our war strength division.
During the Russo-Japanese War independent infantry brigades, some of
infantry only, others "reinforced,” were used as army troops and G. H. Q.
reserves. They were assigned to armies and withdrawn in accordance with
the mission and situation, just as we assign and withdraw G. H. Q. artillery.
They were used to enable army commanders to hold out a cohesive reserve
and without necessity for disrupting any division. They could replace a
brigade that had been exceptionally heavily engaged thus enabling the divi-
sion to continue its effort. They were used on missions not demanding a
complete division, and could make progress (living mainly on the country)
in terrain where supply difficulties would tend to immobilize a complete
division. For flank protection, for lines of communication, and for many
duties requiring the detachment of small forces they saved calls on the
divisions, leaving these, and the armies of which they were component parts
undisturbed as to normal organization and combat capacity.


  p. 2016 (#960)                      #

2016
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
They were not "provisional" brigades, but were duly organized from the
beginning with permanent commanders and staffs. They had a distinct
organization esprit; many will live in history.
Apparently these units have disappeared. They were known as "kobi"
brigades, being organized from kobi (first reserve) troops and at present
we hear only of "kobi" divisions. The writer believes that independent
infantry brigades will reappear as G. H. Q. reserves in another war. They
proved their value too conclusively to have been discarded. Sustaining this
belief is the fact that, in Japanese maneuvers are found independent infantry
units (regiments) in reserve; also it has been noted, in conversation with
Japanese officers, that there is a distinct reaction when the operations of
kobi brigades is discussed.
A consideration of the foregoing indicates that the Japanese are not
imitators of the organization of any European nation, just as a study of
their operations will show they are far from following blindly the doctrines
and methods of any nation in campaign and combat. There seems no doubt
that they have studied all and given all due weight, but that organization,
strategy and tactics are distinctly their own.
Comment is made from time to time that the Japanese are conservative
and slow to change. Their history is contradictory in this. Certainly no
nation stood still for so long a period as did Japan under the Shogunate of
the Tokugawas. On the other hand they changed from a feudal to a modern
state in a generation, their military system keeping pace. They have been
criticized for "failing to profit by the lessons of the World War," the rela-
tively small artillery strength, the small percentage of automatic weapons
and the practical absence of motor transport being cited. But, their atten-
tion to air development and the submarine, considered in connection with
their past record for careful planning leads to the logical conclusion that
they have not only studied the World War but have applied the lessons to
be learned therefrom to their own problems and with the characteristics
of the area they wish to control prominently in mind. We should remember
that Grant sent the bulk of his army artillery to the base in the campaign
of 1864. He could not bring it into action nor supply it. It is probable that
Japan has designed her organization for a special theater, and to bring into
action the maximum force, all things considered, in that theater. Tables
of organization do not win battles.
As to leadership the number of armies controlled successfully from a
single headquarters direct has already been commented on. The success
of this control appears to have been due to the thorough understanding by
all commanders of the objective, to complete instruction of each in the mis-
sion of the others, to the maximum of personal consultation of commanders
during engagements, and to the use of cavalry for liaison purposes. Among
army commanders there was absolute loyalty to the objective, combined with
initiative. There are instances where commanders, anticipating the desires
of the supreme command, prepared the orders for the next movement of
their own troops, and, when the directive was received from General Head-
quarters, were able to issue the orders so prepared with little or no altera-
tion.
Cooperation among commanders was a matter of course. We find army
commanders, without orders or request, voluntarily detaching a brigade to
assist another army, possibly thirty miles away. We find regimental com-
manders (themselves engaged) sending a battalion to the aid of another
unit they believed more heavily pressed. Again and again, when informa-
tion was received that a certain organization had been repulsed or was being
counter-attacked, we find contiguous units attacking on their own initiative,
or reserves deflected from a local mission to some operation that would tend
to relieve the pressure on the threatened unit.
Confidence in commanders seemed to be ingrained, due probably to thor-
ough training and to the loyalty referred to. We are taught that, in a field


  p. 2017 (#961)                      #

1925)
2017
Professional Notes
order, no alternative is admissible; in the Japanese orders directives as
"will endeavor to capture," "will occupy - if possible," were habitually
to be found. It was assumed that commanders would do their utmost. As
a corollary we find commanders perfectly frank in expressing doubts of
success. Again and again division and brigade commanders reported that
they could not carry objectives assigned, and, occasionally, that they doubted
their ability to resist counter-attack-and this without apparent fear of
reproach or punishment. Higher commanders responded to such reports by
sending reserves if any were available, or by directing that ground gained
should be held to the last man, or that the attack must be continued at all
hazards. The writer has found record of only one general officer being
relieved from command; there was no Limoge or Blois.
Just as there appears to have been no fear of punishment in event of
failure, there seemed no thought of self-advancement and no jealousy. In
the Russo-Japanese War there were no indications of indecision, and none
of hasty, ill-thought-out action. Calm and deliberate planning, combined
with energetic execution seems to have been the rule, and an enormous
capacity for personal exertion, continued with practically no intervals for
sleep, was notable for division and brigade commanders.
Much has been written of the Japanese soldier, of his courage and en-
durance. Certainly the assaults at Port Arthur equal any in history for
daring and determination. The operations of the Twelfth Brigade, Twelfth
Division at the Sha-ho set a standard of endurance. This unit fought all
day October 11; assaulted and captured Sanchengtzu hills the night of the
eleventh-twelfth, carried the ridge to the north on the twelfth, crossing a
valley 600 yards broad in three rushes; were reorganized for another attack
when recalled for a new mission; marched ten miles through a heavy rain
storm the night of the twelfth-thirteenth; attacked a Russian force on the
hills guarding a pass the following morning making several unsuccessful
assaults; reformed to resist attack on the approach of reinforcements to the
Russians; took up the pursuit when the enemy began retiring on the four-
teenth; then marched eighteen miles over mountain trails to rejoin the divi-
sion on the fifteenth.
While the Japanese were pioneers in application of modern methods of
massed artillery fire, concealment and indirect fire, there were instances to
show that the same aggressive spirit shown by the infantry actuated also
officers and men of the artillery. Their artillery was outranged, but they
pushed it forward and generally succeeded in besting the superior artillery
of their opponents. The initiative of a junior officer in bringing his moun-
tain guns into an advanced position enfilading Gershelmann's line contributed
greatly to the success of Kuroki's first day's operations at Liao Yang.
On the other hand, there are plenty of instances of Japanese soldiers
being stopped by accurate fire, and a few of their failing to respond to their
officers' call for an advance; and, as the war progressed, the instances of
reckless daring in mass diminished. They are admirable soldiers, will
attack with zest and resist to the end ; they are cheerful under hardships;
they have great endurance. But, it is not believed that they differ from
soldiers of other races who have enthusiasm for the cause and confidence
in their leaders, and they have produced no army of higher spirit or greater
endurance than the American army that marched to the Rhine.
A picture has been drawn of skillful, aggressive and unselfish leadership
and of loyal response from the troops that is believed justified by the facts
of history. But, while these traits, combined with the absence of organiza-
tion and consistent leadership of their opponents, gave them an unbroken
series of victories in the last war, an analysis of their methods seems to
indicate that the same careful staff work and an equal fixity of purpose on
the other side might have reversed the results.
Oyama may have been influenced but certainly was not dominated by the
doctrines and maxims of other leaders. He did not hesitate to plan and


  p. 2018 (#962)                      #

2018
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
execute a strategic concentration upon the selected battlefield under condi-
tions that made it certain his plan would become known. His plan yielded
to the enemy the advantages of interior lines, with far better means of
supply and movement. By all rules his armies should have been beaten in
detail long before they could effect their concentration facing Liao Yang.
Not one of them but was immobilized from time to time by supply difficul-
ties, while the railroad and better roads left the Russians free to move.
In the larger engagements we find conclusive evidence of planning the
action in detail, and depending upon the success of each step contributory
to the final object. Instances multiplied where a perfectly logical reaction
on the part of the Russians would have forced a complete change of the
rather complicated plan and with grave danger of disaster.
The double envelopment has been condemned for the smaller force.
Oyama did not hesitate to use it, and it is to be seen also in some of the
independent operations of Kuroki.
All great leaders have stressed the importance of saving reserves until
the crisis of the action. We find, not only Oyama, but all of the subordinate
commanders committing reserves very early in an engagement, invariably
before the outcome could be foretold and frequently in the first contact of
the main forces. In all of the larger battles there were periods when the
Japanese had put in practically every unit, and in all (except the Sha-Ho)
they were over-extended at the same time, while the Russians still had large
(though rather disorganized) reserves of fresh troops.
We are told that the greatest effort is to be made in the decisive direction
and area—this maxim had, apparently, no weight with Oyama. At Liao
Yang and to a lesser degree at Mukden he concentrated his mass in a por-
tion of the field where no decision could be expected logically, where no
great result could come from success, depending upon comparatively small
forces to influence the retreat of the enemy; forces so distant as to be
almost beyond his immediate control.
On the other hand, he followed the maxim about adherence to a plan
once adopted. None of his subordinate commanders received contradictory
orders, none left idle. In his brief written orders, regardless of success or
failure in attaining the day's objectives, and regardless of what the enemy
might be attempting, the following phrase is generally to be found: “The
intentions of the Commander-in-Chief are unchanged."
Neither he, nor his army commanders, would ever yield the initiative.
Should the enemy develop great strength and aggressiveness in one portion
of the field, even though success might have serious results, the action was
always to expedite, and (if reserves were available) to strengthen the attack
elsewhere.
Oyama opened neither of his main offensive battles in the direction he
expected to obtain a decision. In both he developed an attack of sufficient
strength to appear serious on the opposite flank and continued it until it
was apparent that his opponent had committed many of his reserves. Then
came the decisive movement, a wide turning or a double envelopment, unless
he decided upon an intermediate stage consisting of a holding attack in the
center with light, extended forces. Both at Liao Yang and Mukden a well
planned counter-attack through the center would have separated the Japanese
forces and cut off supplies from at least one wing.
Only rarely was the Japanese attack as strong as it seemed; the enemy,
not unnaturally, could not credit the fact that, in the opening of a long
engagement, their enemy would commit practically all reserves to the line.
They could not believe that Kuroki (at Liao Yang) isolated on the north
of the Tait-zu, would extend four brigades over a ten-mile front in the
endeavor to outflank and threaten the retreat of superior forces then vigor-
ously counter-attacking him in a direction where failure to hold would cut
him off from hope of reinforcement. Almost invariably the Russians exag-


  p. 2019 (#963)                      #

1925)
2019
Professional Notes
gerated the strength of the forces along the entire line, whereas the simplest
staff work should have shown them the true condition.
In the lesser battles the same strategic and tactical conception is to be
observed. In only one of the engagements (Tashihchiao) was a frontal
attack depended upon for a decision. In all others the frontal attack held
attention while a large portion, if not the bulk, of the forces were sent on
wide turning movements or (Motienling) a double envelopment. Even in
the smaller affairs (see Chiao-Tou) this method was habitual. A counter-
attack delivered from four to six hours after the first advance of the Jap-
anese would frequently have found only a small force in front and covering
the line of communications. The remaining forces were generally scattered
in small detachments with poor means of communication and such supplies
as could be packed over inferior trails.
Another noteworthy characteristic was the night movement and attack,
especially in terrain where artillery support could not be assured. The
night attack, also, almost invariably followed failure of the day assault,
provided success at that point was essential to the plan. Oyama's evening
orders frequently contained the directive "Such unit will endeavor to carry
- tonight." Had the Russians, after repelling a day attack, assembled
and disposed reserves to meet a night attack they would have saved many
a key point; and, in those cases where the night attack did not follow, had
they utilized the reserves so assembled for a determined advance the fol-
lowing morning they would have found, almost invariably, only a shell in
front; that the bulk of the forces that had attacked the day before had
been withdrawn for use elsewhere.
There is no doubt that this shell would have fought bitterly. It is to
be noted that when the Japanese infantry retired, they did so on a position
that was marked to be held, that where the position occupied was really
important they did not retire. One company held against a battalion at
Motienling, and, near Chiao-Tou, a single company fought against eight,
and, strengthened by the arrival of two more companies, fought for four
and a half hours until relieved. A larger example is that of the Twelfth
Brigade and Guard Kobi Brigade at the Sha-Ho, opposing the First and
Third Siberian Corps, reinforced by the cavalry of Rennenkampf and
Samsonoff. Frequently the Russians had the force to overwhelm them,
but lacked the staff to analyze their enemy's combat methods.
Considering the character of the terrain and the scarcity of telephone
communication, the liaison was remarkable. It is astonishing to see how
promptly Oyama gathered information of events, and how quickly reaction
in one portion of the line followed success, failure, or threatened reverse
in another. Doubtless another war will find far more extensive use of
electrical communications, and it may well be that the Japanese cavalry will
gain in prestige by those brilliant surprise actions we expect of that arm
in open warfare. But we should not criticize success, and the Japanese
cavalry did their full share in the success of these battles ; incidentally its
use tends to confirm the view that the Japanese are not tied down by pre-
vailing ideas; that they prepare what they need and use it as they deem
most advisable. As noted they still have a considerable cavalry detachment
with the division.
It has been frequently remarked that in no battle did the Japanese exploit
their success, that invariably the Russians made good their retirement, and
that only at Mukden was the retirement seriously threatened ; in brief, that
the Japanese were capable of any exertion up to the time the full fruits of
victory were to be gathered, then failed of the final effort. Our principle
of the objective-the destruction of the enemy armed forces—was not fol-
lowed out. The Clausewitz doctrine-that the army which inflicts the
greatest losses really wins regardless of who holds the battlefield and pro-
vided both are left intact to fight again—was equally discarded. The Jap-
anese were satisfied with actual mastery of the battlefield.


  p. 2020 (#964)                      #

2020
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
History may show a possible explanation of this. There is no recorded
instance of a Japanese army losing a battle to a foreign enemy. Minor
reverses, yes, as witness the capture of Tsusima by the Koreans; the aban-
donment of a campaign, yes, as witness the many failures to hold Korea;
yielding the fruits of victory, yes, as witness the retirement from Port
Arthur and the Liao Tung after the Chino-Japanese War, on demand of
the European powers; but a pitched battle of opposing forces-never. Jap-
anese troops have fled in panic, but it was in civil wars when their opponents
were also Japanese.
This tradition of invincibility when facing a foreign foe may be the
explanation of the failure of the Japanese to exploit their victories in the
Russo-Japanese War. It would be a very unusual man who would risk
being the first soldier of his race to lose a battle to a foreign army. Only
in some of the smaller engagements were the Russians decisively defeated ;
in most of the battles they retired from the field when there was still plenty
of fight left in the men. If cornered, they might turn the tables; once they
were definitely known to be retiring they were permitted to do so.
In this record of unbroken victories there is an element of weakness as
well as of strength. While it undoubtedly enhances the morale of all ranks,
it may explain the grave risks taken and the heavy losses accepted, some-
times without justification, considering the benefits, in order to ensure the
actual occupation of the disputed field, and it may explain, as intimated
above, why the final effort was not made. The plea of exhaustion cannot
be accepted; all Japanese units had not made such efforts as that described
for Matsunaga's brigade at the Sha-Ho. There was some other reason.
It may be that Oyama realized that he could not afford to lose a battle
on account of the effect upon Japanese prestige. Japan depended upon loans
to finance the war. Continuous success meant continued confidence, while a
reverse might tighten the purse strings of Europe. This might have been
the reason for resting satisfied with the appearance of victory rather than
risking all to attain the reality; all well knowing that no complete analysis
could be made till after the war. The history of the Japanese move for
peace, and the reasons that government took the initiative in seeking peace,
tend to confirm this view. To have followed the directive from the home-
land, rather than to follow his own instincts as a general, is not beyond
what is known of Oyama's character and that of his army commanders.
To sum up:
The Japanese infantryman is an ardent fighter with preference for the
bayonet. He is capable of prolonged exertion, of extremely long charges
and he will not yield ground he is ordered to hold;
The artillery is well trained and will take great risks to support the
infantry;
The cavalry does not attempt the role we deem basic-its most valuable
function is contact and liaison ;
The organization is built to enable the maximum strength, all things con-
sidered, to be developed in a terrain of inferior communications.
Their leaders are skillful, tireless, calm, and daring. Personal ambition
seems lost in devotion to the general success;
Night movement and night combat are habitual;
There is a singular uniformity of maneuver, and of reaction in case of
success or failure;
There is a tendency to complicated plans capable of disruption if oppo-
nents combine energetic leadership with skillful staff work;
There is great determination in adhering to a plan and thorough mutual
confidence among leaders;
They will not yield the initiative regardless of danger at critical points;
Small reserves and early commitment of these is the rule;


  p. 2021 (#965)                      #

1925)
2021
Professional Notes
They will risk anything, will drive their men to the limit and accept any
losses rather than yield a battlefield; but will take no chance of forcing a
counter-attack once the enemy definitely breaks off action and retires;
They are careful and analytical students of the doctrines, methods, or-
ganization and equipment of others, but accept the use only those that seem
best fitted to their own problems.
Australia's Apprehensions
By Sir Herbert Russell, The Naval and Military Record, 29 July, 1925.-
we regarded the German Navy before the Great War. She thinks it is the
one real menace to the peace of the Pacific, and that she herself is directly
concerned in the designs which form the guiding policy of Japanese sea
power. It is true to say that if there were no Japanese Navy there would
be no visible possibility of a disturbance of the peace of the Pacific. We
should continue to maintain light cruiser squadrons in the Far East, and
the "hundred per cent" American Navy mght roam about the South Seas
and proclaim the hegemony of them as much as it pleased without the least
risk of any other nation troubling itself in the least. Australia would feel
that her “All White" policy was not likely to prove a source of serious
trouble, and that blessed phrase "the Yellow Peril” would never have been
born.
But, since there is a very big and very efficient Japanese Navy, and since
both this country and the United States are giving increased attention to
the Pacific as a naval zone, it is rather interesting to review the assumptions
upon whch is based the conclusion that war is inevitable, sooner or later.
War in this age can only spring from very definite causes, and when these
causes are clearly examined and understood we are in a position to consider
whether it may not be possible to compose them without recourse to armed
force at all.
The policy which the United States and Australia are pursuing seems to
be a policy which is bound to result in war with Japan. It is a policy of
the exclusion of the Asiatic. I do not propose to discuss the wisdom or the
justification of this policy: I simply take it as a clearly established principle.
That national sentiment in Japan should be very resentful of this attitude
is intelligible enough, but sentiment alone is not going to form a casus belli.
A nation, like an individual, may be deeply annoyed in being told by an
erstwhile friend to clear out and keep to herself, but she is not going to kick,
scratch, and bite simply for the sake of compelling acquaintanceship. Japan
would much prefer to turn her back with quiet dignity and return to that
long seclusion from which, by the irony of fate, the United States first
forced her, but she has reached-indeed, has passed-a stage of national
development when this is quite impossible. Necessity is forcing her into an
attitude distasteful to her temperament. Let me give some figures which
will explain the real seriousness of the outlook if the United States and
Australia persist in their present door-closing policy-and they certainly
will persist.
The Japanese Empire has an area of 148,756 square miles and a popula-
tion of 70,000,000. This gives 356 people to the square mile. China has an
area of 1,896,500 square miles, and a population of 428,000,000, giving 225
people to the square mile. Australia has an area of 2,974,581 square miles
and a population of 5,500,000, which gives it 1.8 people to the square mile.
New Zealand, with its population of 1,239,000, shows 10.8 people to the
square mile. Japan is at the bursting point of self-containment. She looks
west, toward China, and the United States exclaims “hands off! You
mustn't go there and spoil our markets !” She looks south toward Austra-
lia, which cries out, "Begone! We will have none of you !” She looks
east, toward California, and sees the gate banged in her face—and so she


  p. 2022 (#966)                      #

2022
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
polishes her weapons and says that since her honorable race must have
standing room on the face of the earth she must very soon take by force
that which is denied to her by what the white races choose to call destiny.
Here is the whole gist of the Pacific menace. The needs of her people is
Japan's plea; she does not want territorial expansion for the sake of ag-
grandizement, but for housing accommodation. I believe that this question
is better and more sympathetically understood in England than in any other
country; hence, we do not pay very much heed to hair-curling prophecies
about the Yellow Peril. We are developing Singapore because we realize
that it is quite possible the United States may force a conflict with Japan,
or, worse still, Australia may challenge attack. In the one case we should
have to protect our Empire interests; in the other, we should immediately
declare war. But, Great Britain does not want to go to war with Japan,
whom she has always liked, and therefore does not contemplate the prospect
seriously, and because I believe it equally true that Japan does not want
to go to war with Great Britain, she will not attack Australia if she can
possibly get breathing space somewhere or anywhere without being shot at.
I confess that the growing tendency of the United States to regard
China as a new Monroe parish seems to me to hold the most disquieting
possibilities. Japan does not seriously dispute that the Australians have a
right to Australia. But she is prepared to very seriously dispute that the
Americans have any right to China. She is in an extraordinary favorable
strategical position for entering upon a naval war against the United
States-on her own terms. Manila and Guam she would naturally seize
as a preliminary step, and American expert opinion is pretty unanimous
that this would be inevitable. The Inland Sea would be her Scapa Flow, and
the long string of "mandate" islands her intermediate and submarine bases.
Singapore would be a very nasty thorn in the side, but then Singapore is
British, and not American.
The strategic position of Japan in relation to Australia is still more ad-
vantageous, and probably it is rather from realization of this fact than from
any real misgiving as to Japanese intentions that Australia is rendered so
uneasy. Relatively speaking, Japan did remarkably well out of the Great
War, and she did quite well out of the Washington Conference. She played
her rôle faithfully as an ally, but that rôle did not impose any great degree
of sacrifice. Her reward was definite, and, in a naval sense, very sub-
stantial indeed. Germany perfectly well knew the strategical value of the
islands which Japan has now annexed, and if they were of strategical value
to Germany, how infinitely more so to Japan? As the suzerain of the
Marshall, the Caroline, and the Ladrone Islands, Japan has advanced very
near to Australia.
I do not like the Japanese Treaty with Soviet Russia. She has been
largely driven into it by the sense of isolation which followed upon the
abrogation of the Anglo-Japanese Alliance, chiefly at the behest of America.
It recalls the prediction of Sun Yat-sen, made at Canton, in January, 1924.
that: “Within a decade China, Japan, India, Russia, and Germany will
join hands against those who are now victorious in the world. .... This
alliance is already in the making.” I think we may eliminate Germany
from this sketchy forecast, and the idea of China allying herself with a
country which is seeking to peacefully absorb her is rather novel. But, the
compact with Russia is a fait accompli, and would prove a tremendous asset
to Japan in the event of a Pacific War.
Let us look the situation fairly and squarely in the face. Not today nor
tomorrow, but in the very near future, Japan must have more elbow room
on the face of the earth. She casts a languishing eye on the wide vacant
spaces of Australia, but the forces against her are too great, and she
knows she cannot establish herself in Australia. She looks toward Man-
churia, and sees no reason why she should not establish herself there. The
United States declares that there is a reason: that it will not permit


  p. 2023 (#967)                      #

1925)
2023
Professional Notes
Manchuria to become another Korea Japan is not yet articulate in her
attitude toward this doctrine, but a day may come-will come—when she
will tell the United States that she has quite as much right to exploit
Manchuria as the United States has to try and keep her out of Manchuria,
and probably just a little more so. Then the crisis will be upon us, and
the peace of the Pacific will tremble in the balance.
Great Britain will use her utmost endeavors to avert a rupture, but it is
rather difficult to see just what she can do. Japan will be inexorable in her
necessitous demands. The imperiousness of the United States will brook of
no intervention, but whether she will be quite as ready to fight as she is to
talk about fighting must remain to be seen. Australia will be wholly on
the side of the United States, and this will seriously complicate the situation
so far as Great Britain is concerned.
We are still in the "calm and dispassionate" stage. Let us look at the
whole problem calmly and dispassionately. Let us realize that Japan is
building submarines and cruisers and generally preparing for war not be-
cause she wants war, but because she foresees herself being denied room
for expansion in the world. We cannot keep a proud, resolute, and
courageous nation of 70,000,000 inhabitants pent up within its own straining
fence even if we want to. Surely, the job is one for diplomacy rather than
for war. I am not a holder of Chinese securities, therefore I have no
arrier pensé when I say that since China is manifestly incapable of running
herself, let Japan go there on the understanding of equal commercial
rights to all nations. She will go there ultimately in any case, even if it
be over the sunken hulls of a vast armada and the dead bodies of invad-
ing armies.
Seven “Danger Spots" Still Disturb World
International Experts at the Williamstown Institute of Politics Describe
Leading Territorial and Economic Points of Dispute That Cause Great
Armaments and the Fear of War in Europe, Asia and America, By Russell
Porter, New York Times, 9 August, 1925.-Williamstown, Massachusetts.-
Despite the peace treaties, the League of Nations, the Washington Con-
ference, the Dawes plan and all the organized movements for peace and for
the outlawry of war, the world is still upset by war talk, preparations for
war and actual hostilities. This is evident to any one who reads the dis-
patches from China, Morocco and certain parts of Europe.
It is brought home with special force to those who have followed the
discussions in the first two weeks of the Institute of Politics, that annual
clearing-house of international affairs now meeting in the Berkshires. From
all parts of the globe experts have come to explain the problems of peace
and war that threaten the happiness and prosperity of mankind. A sum-
mary of the lectures, open conferences and round-table talks already held at
Williamstown shows that a great many of these problems still remain to be
solved that there are numerous "danger spots” on the earth's surface and
no lack of "danger ideas" among the peoples of the world.
Lest the review of these discussions seem alarmist in tone and give the
false impression that the world is going to the dogs, it should be made
clear at the beginning that the prevailing opinion among the leaders at the
institute is that the economic and political conditions of the world as
a whole have shown much progress since the close of the war, especially
during the last year.
The Dawes plan and other constructive efforts to repair the damage
of the war are recognized steps in the right direction, but are seen as no
more than steps. It is realized that the general problem consists of a great
many individual problems, each one of which must be solved before the
final "Q. E. D.” can be written.
The greatest immediate source of danger to world peace is recognized as
the widespread feeling of insecurity which affects virtually all European


  p. 2024 (#968)                      #

2024
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
nations in consequence of the general unrest and impoverishment caused by
the European war. Major General Sir Frederick Maurice, who was Chief
of Operations on the British General Staff in the war, put his finger
on it, in one of his round table discussions of "Limitation of Armaments,"
when he said that the great trouble with Europe was not militarism or
imperialism, but plain "funk."
"By the treaties of peace drastic limitation has been imposed upon the ex-
enemy countries." General Maurice said. "The German Army has been
reduced from 866,000 in 1913 to 100,000 in 1925, and after making all
allowances for loss of troops and population due to the war the reduction
of the armed forces maintained in time of peace in the ex-enemy countries
amounts to at least 760,000 men.
"One would expect, then, to find at least a corresponding reduction in
other countries; but, in fact, the total number of armed men in Europe today
is approximately the same as it was in 1913. It is commonly supposed that
this is largely due to the action of France, and talk about the enormous
French Army is common. The army of France is, of course, the most
powerful in the world today, but it has been very materially reduced as
compared to 1913. In 1913 the French Army numbered 760,000; in 1925 it
numbers 675,000. The 766,000 were all Frenchmen; today the number of
Frenchmen is only 435,000. There has been a large increase in the native
(colonial) army, but this has been largely due to the great increase in
French territory in North Africa and Syria. Recent events in Morocco is
one of the reasons for the increase in the native army.
“The fact of the reduction in the French Army and that quite recently
further portions of the Ruhr have been evacuated by French and Belgian
troops shows that the authorities in France do not consider the German
forces an immediate menace. They are looking toward the future and see
with anxiety that the German population is increasing, while their own
is stationary.
“The real cause of the failure to limit armaments in Europe as com-
pared with 1913 is due less to the attitude of France and Germany than to
the creation of a whole crop of new armies in the nations which have
been created as a result of the peace treaties. Poland, Rumania, Finland,
Yugoslavia and Czechoslavia all today have formidable armies. The reason
is that they see themselves surrounded by neighbors from whom territory has
been taken. They have in their own borders large minorities of other
nations, and they are obsessed with the sense of insecurity.
"It is the feeling of insecurity, perfectly natural in countries that have
seen their fields ravaged by war, which is today the main cause of the main-
tenance of armies in Europe, and it is because that is so that the statesmen
of Europe have agreed upon a formula for the approach to the problem of
world peace in which they designate security, arbitration, limitation of
armaments, placing the three steps toward the ultimate goal in that order.
In a conversation with the writer General Maurice pointed out that the
security pact now being negotiated would guarantee the eastern frontiers
of France and Belgium against another German invasion, but that it would
leave other problems unsolved. He said that Poland and the smaller
countries bordering on Russia would still insist upon the maintenance of
large armies because of the fear of invasion by the Red soldiers, although he
remarked that the Russian Army, while large, was poorly equipped and had
inadequate transportation facilities.
Overpopulation has been stressed here as another possible cause of
future international strife. According to Professor Edward M. East, Har-
vard authority on population problems, the world is facing a very serious
situation. In fifty years at most, he said, the populations of the great
agricultural countries in the temperate zone will have increased to such a


  p. 2025 (#969)                      #

1925]
2025
Professional Notes
size that these countries will have difficulty in feeding their own inhabitants,
let alone exporting food as they do at present. The United States is in-
cluded among these countries, as well as Canada, Australia, New Zealand
and Argentina.
“This is a serious situation," said Professor East, "for in the meantime
the rate of increase of population in Europe has been very great. During
most of the nineteenth century the nations of Western Europe have had an
excess of births over deaths of at least thirteen per 1,000 annually. The
result has been an immense number of people who must be fed on imported
food. During the war Sir Henry Rew, the English food controller, testified
that England produced only 40 per cent of the food necessary to support
her people. Little Belgium produces only 35 per cent of her food require-
ments, Holland about the same. Food must be supplied to support 35 per
cent of the population of Italy, 30 per cent of the population of France and
28 per cent of the population of Germany. In the remaining countries of
Central and Western Europe the import-export ledger just about balances.
"The problem boils down to this: Western Europe has 85,000,000 of
excess population which must be supported by overseas commerce, and the
political difficulties arise from trying to enlarge the commerce to meet these
requirements if the countries previously supplying the necessities of life
are less and less able and willing to do it. Conditions are not hopeless, by
any means, but if the statesmen of Europe have any vision whatsoever it is
hoped that they will see their problem in its true light instead of magnifying
the petty political differences among them into major questions.
"Russia will recover. Of this there is no doubt. But, Russia will recover
slowly. She will export food; but the chances are that she will never again
become the exporting nation that she was formerly. Her own population
in the pre-war days was increasing nearly as rapidly as that of Canada.
If the current governmental returns are accurate, the population has again
started on the upward trend. In a limited number of years, therefore, how
many no one can say, Russia also must be removed from the list of food
exporters. It is just this period of time, perhaps thirty years, perhaps fifty
years, which may be taken as a respite for Western Europe, a period during
which she must set her house in order.
“During this time she must remove her cancerous overgrowth of popu-
lation to her colonies. This will be a temporary relief. The cure, if she is
to have a cure for her present trouble, can come only when the population is
standardized at such a figure, through birth control, that the people of each
political unit are supported by the products of its soil. Other remedies are
merely sugar-coated pills whose virtues are largely imaginary."
Closely connected with the population problem is that of raw materials.
Professor Charles K. Leith, of the University of Wisconsin, a noted
geologist, who is conducting a round table on the relation of mineral re-
sources of world affairs, predicted that "it is certain that wars will result"
unless an intelligent solution is found for the problem of the control of
minerals by a comparatively few countries.
He pointed out that a few strong combinations dominated the entire
mineral resources of the world and that the United States and England
alone, by agreeing on the disposition of the minerals they control, could
determine the general course of the mineral industry of the world. About
90 per cent of the world's steel production, for example, is centered in
three places—the Lake Superior region in the United States, England and
the Ruhr, because in no other parts of the world are there sufficient deposits
of coal and iron ore to make a big steel industry profitable.
These fundamental problems of over-population and lack of raw materials,
as has been shown at the institute, are sometimes linked with political move-
ments such as extreme nationalism, imperialism and militarism. In the


  p. 2026 (#970)                      #

2026
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
opinion of many students of international affairs, that is true of Italy, which
is regarded here as the most important "danger spot" in the world today.
Italy is densely overpopulated, has insufficient colonies in which to settle
her surplus inhabitants, has seen her emigration to the United States cut
off, lacks coal and other essential resources, and, according to General
Maurice, has the third largest standing army in Europe, only France and
Russia having larger armies.
Count Antonio Cippico, Italian Senator and Fascist, who delivered a
series of lectures here, has denied that Italy has any imperialist ambitions.
He has insisted that Mussolini and modern Italy desire nothing but the
peaceable solution of their problems. The solution he has suggested is that
the other nations supply Italy with colonies as an outlet for her excess
population, or allow Italians to settle in foreign countries without giving
SERIA
OA
SSIA
NANAY
NO
h A SI
UNITEV
MERICA
STATOS
ATLANTI
W
DIA
o
..
OCEAN
F
CENTRA
ANECA
IWDIAN OCEAW
le
to SOUTH AMERICA
THE CHIEF INTERNATIONAL "DANGER SPOTS" ON THE WORLD MAP
As Described by Speakers at the Institute of Politics at Williamstown
1. Italy, overpopulated and without sufficient colonies to provide an out-
let for her surplus inhabitants.
2. The Dantzic corridor, with the related territorial question of Upper
Silesia, has aroused intense feeling in Germany and Poland.
3. Saloniki, in which the Serbs demand a larger free zone and control of
the connecting railway. The ramifications of this Greek-Serbian dispute
extend throughout the Balkans.
4. Bessarabia is a potential source of trouble between Russia and Ru-
mania.
5. Austria, which apparently desires to become a part of the German
Republic, a project that the peace treaties forbid and that Czecho-Slovakia
and France oppose.
6. China, where a pronounced sentiment of nationalism has resulted in
growing restlessness under foreign control of ports and customs.
7. Mexico's oil wealth, her backward state of economic development and
her difficulties with the United States over mineral ownership, make this
country an international problem.
up their Italian citizenship and without abandoning their political ties with
Italy. He has indignantly rejected the birth control suggestion for his
people.
Drawing a picture of Italy as "a prisoner in her own sea" (the Mediter-
ranean) because of English control of the Straits of Gibraltar and the
Suez Canal, the Fascist spokesman told the institute:
"In view of her geographical position, her almost complete lack of raw
materials and her ever-expanding population, Italy is today the gravest
problem of the Mediterranean. It is not imperialism or nationalistic egotism
which guides the acts and aspirations of the Italian Government and people.
It is a necessity, growing every day more urgent, to insure to the nation


  p. 2027 (#971)                      #

1925]
2027
Professional Notes
H
tranquillity in its political and economic life, freedom of movement, and
outlets suited to the needs of its ever-expanding population and industries.
By studying this problem in time, and in the light of present political reali-
ties, it may be possible to find a peaceful solution."
After Italy, the most serious European problem at present is the dispute
between Poland and Germany about Dantzic, the Dantzic corridor, and
Upper Silesia, according to Professor Bernadotte Schmitt of the University
of Chicago, who is conducting a round table on European political problems.
Professor Schmitt, who visited the various European "danger spots” re-
cently, said that the temper on both sides in the Dantzic corridor con-
troversy is rising, with the Poles insisting on the retention of the corridor
because it gives them direct access to the sea, and the Germans protesting
because it separates the main body of the German State from East Prussia.
As to Dantzic itself, the Poles maintain that Germany is putting every ob-
stacle in their way to prevent them from using it as a port, whereas the
Germans assert that the Poles are working to install a Polish garrison and
to make the city Polish.
The Upper Silesian trouble, according to Professor Schmitt, is caused by
German resentment at the award made by the League of Nations in 1921.
He said the Germans contend that the whole of Upper Silesia should have
been turned over to Germany, because she had an overwhelming majority in
the plebiscite, and that the division of the area between the two countries has
destroyed its economic unity, making it impossible for the industries de-
pending on Upper Silesian coal to compete with the Ruhr industries. In
addition, he said, there are repeated complaints of ill treatment of Germans
on the Polish side of the line, and of Poles on the German side, resulting
in the recent widespread expulsions.
Count Alexander Skrzynski, Foreign Minister of Poland, who spoke
twice before the institute, emphasized the dilemma of democratic Poland,
wedged between Bolshevist Russia and nationalist Germany, as the ex-
planation for her large standing army, the fourth largest in Europe.
The next most inflammable question after that of Poland, Professor
Schmitt went on, is that of the port of Saloniki on the Ægean Sea. The
Serbs demand a larger free zone in the port, as well as control of the
railway running to Saloniki, in the same way that the Poles control the
Dantzic corridor, and the Serbs are making acceptance of their demands
a condition of the renewal of the alliance between Greece and Yugoslavia.
As a result, negotiations for the renewal are deadlocked.
The Serbian-Greek quarrel has complicated the situation in Macedonia,
where the Serbs are trying to Serbianize the population, which is generally
regarded as predominantly Bulgaria. If the negotiations between Greece
and Yugoslavia break down completely, Professor Schmitt said, the Serbs
may be forced into a rapprochement with Bulgaria. This would strengthen
Bulgaria enough to insist on a territorial outlet on the Ægean, and might
bring about a dangerous situation in the Balkans.
Another sore spot in Eastern Europe, said Dr. Schmitt, is the Bessarabia
question between Russia and Rumania. He pointed out that if this dispute
should lead to an attack on Rumania by Russia, a general European war
might be entailed because of alliances. Poland, because of her alliance with
Rumania, would have to attack Russia. This might tempt Hungary and
Germany to attack Poland in order to regain Transylvania and the Dantzic
corridor respectively. Whether France would hold back Germany, and
Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia would hold back Hungary, he said, was a
question.
Professor Schmitt said that the agitation in Vienna for a union between
Germany and Austria was another potential source of trouble. Such a
union would be contrary to all the peace treaties, and Czechoslovakia is
firmly opposed to it, but the majority of Austrians probably would welcome


  p. 2028 (#972)                      #

2028
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
it, he said. In the present state of affairs, he predicted, an attempt to carry
out the union would lead to instant action by Czechoslovakia, and probably
by France and Italy. The only way to get the idea out of Austrian minds, he
said, was to hasten the completion of the economic rehabilitation of Austria
under the supervision of the League.
“Finally," Dr. Schmitt added, "the question of minorities looms up danger-
ously across the entire belt of territory from the Baltic to the Ægean.
The whole eastern frontier of Poland is studded with minorities-Lithu-
anians, White Russians, Ukranians. There is the eternal German question in
Czechoslovakia. The Magyars complain of their treatment in Czecho-
slovakia, Rumania and Yugoslavia. The Bulgarians complain of the treat-
ment of the Macedonians by the Serbs and of the Bulgarians in Dobrudja by
the Rumanians.”
Problems of the Pacific are being discussed before the institute by Profes-
sor George H. Blakeslee, of Clark University, leader of the open con-
ference on the recent foreign policy of the United States, who recently re-
turned from the Institute of Pacific Relations at Honolulu.
"The first danger point in the Pacific," said Professor Blakeslee, “is
found in the rapid development of a strong, intelligent nationalism through-
out China. According to all accounts, this has increased very greatly, even
in the last few months, and is based upon a more conscious realization of the
extent to which China is held under foreign control, and an insistent de-
mand that this control shall be done away with. The Chinese resent the
limitation of their right to levy customs duties above 5 per cent, the
privileges of extra-territoriality enjoyed by foreign nations and the extreme
rights of foreign concessions, especially in Shanghai.
"Japanese and American goods cannot be taxed over 5 per cent in Chinese
ports, while Chinese goods are taxed in many instances from 30 to 60 per
cent in the ports of Japan and the United States. As to extra-territoriality,
a number of states have already given up this privilege, including Russia,
Germany and Austria, and a number of other states have never enjoyed
it, including the new states of Europe and many of the Latin-American
states. With respect to foreign settlements, the Chinese are most resent-
ful of the situation in Shanghai, where there is a population of 1,000,000
Chinese who pay 75 per cent of the taxes and have no part whatever in the
municipal government.
"For these reasons China is getting to the boiling point and is in danger
of blowing off the lid. If nothing is done by the strong treaty powers to
meet the situation, the immediate result will be to aid Russia in her effort
to get more complete control of China. There is no question of the very
great influence which Russia has already gained in China, doubtless due,
in the main, simply to the fact that Russia has given up her control in
China, and, as the Chinese view it, is treating China as a nation, of equality.
Communism has gained some influence on a basis especially among the
younger element and the students. According to various reliable accounts,
the Russians have been spending large sums of money in propaganda, and
have been taking groups of Chinese students to Moscow for propaganda
training.
"Thoughtful Chinese do not really expect immediate abolition of the
various forms of foreign supervision, but they do demand that some steps
be taken in the immediate future to moderate this control."
Another danger in China, Dr. Blakeslee went on, came from the lack of
a stable central government. If China continues to break up, he said, the
American Far Eastern policies—the open door and the integrity of China-
would be imperiled. He said this was a more difficult problem to solve.
"As to Japan," Professor Blakeslee continued, “it is clear that she still
feels deeply injured over what she regards as the affront of the statutory
exclusion provisions of our 1924 Immigration Act. Many thoughtful Japa-


  p. 2029 (#973)                      #

1925]
2029
Professional Notes
nese realize the political, social and economic difficulties of the United
States in dealing with this problem, and the unlikelihood that the law can
be repealed, at least in the immediate future; but they consider that it would
be a great help if the United States could give some 'gesture of friendship’
to Japan.
"It would appear clear that the Japanese Government is still anxious to
cooperate with the United States in carrying out the open-door policy in
China, but there is a difficulty in that a minority element in Japan is so re-
sentful at the treatment by the United States and the British Dominions re-
garding issues of racial equality that they favor an alignment with China,
Russia and possibly other powers, making up a Pan-Asiatic group, which
they would lead."
Coming nearer home, the most serious danger spot in the Western Hem-
isphere, as pointed out in Williamstown, is to be found in Mexico. The
new awakening of the Mexican people, who are in a less advanced state
of economic development than the people of the United States, has put
emphasis on the distinction that the United States is an exploiting and
Mexico is an exploited nation. This, it has been shown, has caused a dead-
lock in negotiations for the exploitation of the Mexican oil resources, which
are of the utmost importance to the United States in view of the fact that
we have passed the peak of our own oil production. Owing to the un-
settled political conditions in Mexico, and the new Mexican laws dealing
with exploitation of mineral resources, which interfere with American com-
mercial relations, it is the opinion here that Mexico will remain a serious
problem for a long time to come-perhaps fifty years.
Expressions of sympathy toward Mexico by nations in Central and South
America has given rise to a fear among Latin-American authorities that
the smaller nations south of the Rio Grande might combine against what
they regard as the dominion of the United States, thus bringing about a
balance of power and threatening the same kind of disaster with which the
European balance of power ended in 1914. Dr. Leo S. Rowe, Director Gen-
eral of the Pan-American Union, who heads the Round Table on "Inter-
American Relations," told the institute that our policy in Latin-America
should be against any such balance of power and for what Woodrow Wil-
son described as "a community of interest."
Peace by Cooperation Is Institute's Message
Williamstown Meeting Stressed the Idea That Wars Will Cease When
Nations Learn to Work Together-Summary of Experts' Proposals That
Round Tables Discussed, By Russell Porter, New York Times, 23 August,
1925.-Williamstown, Massachusetts.-Having been in session a month, the
Institute of Politics closed its fifth annual meeting here last Friday. The
emphasis of the meeting was laid on peace. Speakers analyzed the various
problems that threaten the peace of the world and offered constructive pro-
posals for preventing war and preserving international peace.
Many plans were put forward-some practical, others idealistic. Some
aimed at immediate correction of specific evils in different parts of the
globe, others held out utopian hopes for the far-distant future. None was
recommended in the form of a resolution, for the function of the institute,
as expressed by its chairman, Dr. Harry A. Garfield, in his opening address,
is solely to enlighten public opinion through the exchange of information
and criticism.
The mere fact that so many proposals for the preservation of peace were
put forward at the institute, it is felt here, indicates a state of mind that is
encouraging for the future. It is also regarded as significant that people
are no longer talking about universal panaceas for peace, as in the first few
years after the armistice, but are now working forward step by step in the


  p. 2030 (#974)                      #

2030
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
realization that the task is much more complex than was at first believed.
The chief plans proposed during the institute have been summarized below
according to the conferences or lecture courses in which they were set forth.
At this open conference, headed by Dr. George H. Blakeslee, Professor
of History and International Relations at Clark University, the Coolidge
Administration's plan for promoting peace in Europe was outlined in an
authoritative statement by William R. Castle, Jr., Chief of the Division of
Western European Affairs of the Department of State.
"The aim of American policy toward Europe," he said, “is helpfulness
without impertinent interference; cooperation without entanglement; avoid-
ance of promises which cannot be fulfilled and the scrupulous fulfillment of
engagements. The aim of the Administration, first, last and all the time,
is to promote peace, a peace that will be permanent because based on a
sympathetic understanding of common problems and on recognition of na-
tional rights. This policy must always continue thoroughly American, in
that it must be based on the fundamental interests of the United States.
Mr. Castle said that the attitude of this government on war debts was
that of "an honest and generous creditor," that it insisted on payment, but
would be lenient as to terms. It was the policy of this country, he went on,
to encourage loans to European countries that show a will to peace and
discourage them to warlike nations. Under the Harding-Coolidge-Hughes
reservations, he added, the Administration favors our application for mem-
bership in the World Court. Without yielding its position against our
entering the League of Nations, he said, it plans to cooperate with the
League whenever this "appears to be the best method of getting results."
The government, he continued, was interested in disarmament, "gradually and
wisely accomplished"; substitution of judicial procedure for force in more
and more causes; the growth of arbitration and the elimination of causes
of dispute.
Both American and foreign speakers differed with Mr. Castle as to how
the United States could best promote international peace with respect to
the League. Dr. William E. Rappard, Swiss member of the Permanent
Mandates Commission of the League and Vice Rector of the University of
Geneva, welcomed the indications of our forthcoming entry into the World
Court, but insisted that we could not exert our maximum influence for world
peace without becoming a full-fledged member of the League. The influence
of this country would then have much greater weight in obtaining inter-
national justice and fair play, he said.
Dr. Edwin F. Gay, Professor of Economic History at Harvard Univer-
sity, urged complete international cooperation by the United States through
the League for the sake of future world peace, saying that danger of un-
foreseen commitments had been swept aside by the interpretations which
have been put upon Articles X and XVI of the Covenant. The hope of
the world, he went on, is that Europe would not abandon cooperation and
slip back into the old game of balance of power before the United States
decided to join what he called “the only effective insurance against another
world war." He advocated a spirit of cooperation between American and
British commercial interests engaged in world trade in order to prevent
business rivalries from enflaming national antipathies.
How to prevent the present nationalist and anti-foreign movement in
China from leading to chaos and a war that might pit Asiatic against West-
ern civilization was the subject of recommendations by Dr. C. C. Batchelder,
Professor of International Relations at New York University and former
acting Commercial Attaché in China. Mr. Batchelder advocated a "Dawes
commission" to reorganize the industry, commerce and finance of China
along modern lines. Hand in hand with this work, he went on, should go a
modification of the old treaties by which the foreign powers interested in
China should give up some of their rights of extra-territoriality and con-


  p. 2031 (#975)                      #

1925)
2031
Professional Notes
cessions, and should allow China greater control of her courts and customs.
Dr. Rappard said he thought the League could carry out such recom-
mendations if China requested its intervention and if the United States as-
sured her cooperation. Dr. Blakeslee urged that this country make the
strongest possible efforts to obtain the cooperation of the foreign powers
especially Great Britain and Japan, in order to secure the maintenance of the
open door and the integrity of China as safeguards for peace in the Pacific.
As to our relations with Japan, Dr. Blakeslee suggested that the best
policy for the United States to pursue was to abandon all organized move-
ments to remove the statutory exclusion of Orientals from the Immigration
Act of 1924. His reason was that such agitation would certainly fall and
would revive the anti-Japanese sentiment on the Pacific Coast. If the
people of California believe that the immigration question has been settled, at
least temporarily, he argued, they probably will repeal their discriminatory
legislation against Oriental residents. Repeal of the California legislation,
he continued, would be regarded by the Japanese people as "a gesture of
friendship" and would lessen their resentment toward the Immigration bill.
Lionel Curtis, of London, editor of The Round Table, was leader of this
open conference. He advanced his plan for a world commonwealth of
nations, composed of strong self-governing units, on the model of the
British Commonwealth, and governing by the unanimous consent of its
members. Such a world state, he went one, was a vision of the far-distant
future, depending on the education of the masses in all countries and the
training of backward countries in self-government. He contended that the
British Commonwealth was a great agency for peace in the world, because
of the cooperation it inspired "among its self-governing parts" (Australia,
New Zealand, Ireland, Canada) and because of the peaceful interests of its
members.
A recommendation for preventing trouble in one part of the British Com-
monwealth was put forward by F. A. Smiddy, Minister of the Irish Free
State at Washington. He said that the outstanding problem in Ireland is
that of the boundary dispute between the Irish Free State and Ulster, and
that it could be settled permanently only in one way-by Ulster's joining
the Free State. If Ulster would come in and transfer the powers now held
by Westminster to the Irish Free State, he said, she could retain the same
degree of autonomy she now enjoys.
The solution for India's problem is not membership in the British Com-
monwealth, but is independence of England, without severance from the
British Empire, said Professor J. J. Cornelius of the University of Lucknow.
a native Indian. He said that the Indians desired more local government and
a national status as a member of a federation of nations.
Ishmail Kamel Bey, First Secretary of the Egyptian Legation at Wash-
ington, said that the Egyptians wished to settle their difficulties with the
English over the Sudan in a way that would not imperil their newly won
independence and that would promote the interests of both countries. The
most likely plan to accomplish these ends, he went on, was an alliance be-
tween England and Egypt to maintain peace and to keep the Mediterranean
and the Suez Canal open for free traffic to all nations.
With respect to Africa, James Hardy Dillard, President of the John H.
Slater Fund of New York City, said that the task of the British Common-
wealth in order to maintain peace there was to deal justly with the natives
in taxation, to spread knowledge of sanitation and to educate the masses.
Dr. Leo S. Rowe, Director General of the Pan-American Union, leader
of this round table conference, laid down a constructive program for promot-
ing good relations between the United States and the republics south of the
Rio Grande. He defined Pan-Americanism as "an attempt to develop a
continental system based on cooperation and community of interest, a
system from which fear of aggression has been eliminated and in which


  p. 2032 (#976)                      #

2032
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
physical power is not the dominating influence." Its foundation, he said,
was the Monroe Doctrine, preventing the American Continent from becom-
ing the scene of European rivalries for economic and territorial expansion.
He put forward three other necessary doctrines for the preservation of
peace in this hemisphere-acceptance of the principle of non-aggression, no
future territorial acquisition to be obtained by means of war or under the
menace of war, and judicial settlements of international disputes. He urged
the spread of culture influences between the United States and Latin America
and of financial, industrial and commercial factors in order to develop closer
understanding.
A different attitude was presented by Victor M. Cutter, President of the
United Fruit Company, speaking for American big business in the develop-
ment of Latin-American natural resources. He laid greater stress than
Dr. Rowe on the importance of commercial relations in developing better
understanding and urged a stronger policy on the part of our State Depart-
ment in order to insure respect for our citizens and property in Latin-
American countries. At the same time he deprecated economic imperialism
or attempts by American concerns to exploit Latin Americans without
giving them a just share in the profits.
Dr. Bernadotte Schmitt, Professor of History at the University of
Chicago, conducting this round table, said that the policy of exchanging
minorities, which has been carried out by Turkey and Greece, might become
a remedy for the minority problems of Central Europe. He thought the
expulsion of Germans from Poland might be in pursuance of this policy.
The Germans in Czechoslovakia, the Magyars in Czechoslovakia, Rumania
and Yugoslavia and the Bulgarians in Rumania all might have their collective
grievances settled in this manner, it was pointed out, although it might be
hard on the individuals.
It was suggested by Marshall Montgomery, Taylorian lecturer in Ger-
man at Oxford University, that the situation, if left as it is, and if both
sides were encouraged to cultivate patience, cooperation and the avoidance
of hostile propaganda, might settle itself.
For the problem of Dantzic and the Polish corridor, which is causing
increased ill feeling between Germany and Poland, Robert M. Wernaer of
Cambridge, Massachusetts, suggested that Poland bargain with Germany for
other port privileges, possibly at Bremen or Königsberg, in exchange for the
corridor. As to the question of Upper Silesia, the only solution suggested
was that economic pressure in time might bring the Germans and the Poles
together for the sake of mutual advantage.
A possible method of preventing new trouble in the Balkans was by
means of an entente between Bulgaria and Yugoslavia which would give
Bulgaria a territorial outlet on the Ægean Sea, hitherto denied to her by
Greece. This, it was pointed out, would allow both Bulgaria and Yugo-
slavia to use Saloniki as an outlet to the sea and would make it unnecessary
for either nation to take up arms to get what it wanted.
Throughout Europe as a whole Professor Schmitt urged a revision of
school textbooks to eliminate national propaganda. He advocated an inter-
national commission to supervise textbooks for this purpose.
Professor Gay, of Harvard, leader of this round table, declared that
Europe's ability to pay her debts to this country depended upon a decrease
in her imports of agricultural products or an increase in her exports of
manufactured goods, or both. He thought the problem would be solved
largely through the steady growth of industry throughout the world. That,
he said, would provide markets to absorb an increasing amount of European
manufactures, especially iron, steel and textiles.
Emphasis was placed upon the need for avoiding the creation of "eco-
nomic Alsace-Lorraines” up in Southeastern Europe. These seemed to be
arising because the Succession States were trying to smash forever the


  p. 2033 (#977)                      #

1925)
2033
Professional Notes
ties that formerly bound them to Austria and were opposing the forces
that would unite the Danube basin into a single economic factor. The
separation of political and economic interests was urged in order to prevent
"economic minorities” from causing trouble.
Professor Arnold J. Toynbee, of London, leader of this round table,
showed that the fundamental approach to a solution of the difficult problems
of the Mediterranean was the realization that this area was occupied by
peoples of three groups or civilizations—the Islamic group, the Eastern
Christian group and the Western Christian group. He pointed out that all-
Western Christian and Eastern Christian peoples have obtained independence
on national lines, whereas the Islamic peoples have become subject in large
measure to the Western powers.
The great problem of the day in the Mediterranean area and in the Near
East, he said, is the development of nationalism and a desire for independ-
ence among the Islamic peoples-in Turkey, Morocco and elsewhere. His
solution was a compromise by the Western peoples that would allow the
more advanced Islamic leaders to persuade their followers to adopt Western
ideas, as has Japan, instead of playing into the hands of the extremists, who
urge a complete overthrow of Western civilization and a reversion to their
Islamic past.
Major General Sir Frederick Maurice, who was Chief of Operations on
the British General Staff during the war, headed the round table on limita-
tion of armaments. He explained the formula by which European states-
men now hope to remove the spectre of war raised by great military and
aerial forces. Instead of hoping for a solution through a general disarma-
ment conference, he said, Europe is trying to solve this problem by steps,
the first of which is to give a feeling of security to those countries that fear
aggression from their neighbors-France from Germany, Poland from
Russia, for example.
If the security pact now being negotiated by France, Germany and Great
Britain is successfully put through, the French and Belgian frontiers will
be protected from German aggression, but still other frontiers must be made
secure, he went on. Next will come the question of arbitration, to add a
sense of legal security to that of physical security, and only then will it be
possible to hope for a general reduction in armaments. The hope of the
world in this respect, he said, was for the nations to be made to feel secure
that they would voluntarily cut down their armies in order to lighten the
burden of taxation,
Dr. Edward M. East, Harvard University expert on population problems,
leader of the round table on this subject, advanced birth control as the only
ultimate solution of the rapidly increasing population of the earth. Basing
his statements on "the inexorable law" of Malthus, Dr. East pointed out that
85,000,000 people in Europe now depend on food shipped from agricultural
regions in the temperate zone. In the next forty years, he went on, colonial
powers like England, Belgium and Holland, which are overpopulated, must
have a breathing spell in which to shift a large part of their populations to
tropical possessions, where new food supplies may be grown, and must
become self-sustaining for their remaining population.
The United States and other large food-producing countries in the tem-
perate zone, he continued, will have reached a point where they will need all
their food to supply their own populations and can no longer export it. If
future wars caused by overpopulated countries stretching out for territorial
expansion to feed their inhabitants are to be avoided, he concluded, mankind
must restrict the birth rate. Overpopulation in the long run, he said, will
lead to a higher death rate through lack of enough food to go around, if
It does not lead to war.
Other possible solutions of the overpopulation problem advanced at this
conference were the manufacture of synthetic foods and the use of more
scientific agricultural methods, especially in the United States.


  p. 2034 (#978)                      #

2034
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Dr. Charles K. Leith, Professor of Geology at the University of Wis-
consin, advocated universal adoption of the open-door policy for the ex-
ploitation of natural resources in backward countries. This would be the
first step toward the internationalization of such resources in order to pre-
vent wars caused by the desire of countries poor in resources to seize
territories which would enable them to engage in economic competition on
equal terms with their richer rivals.
He pointed out that the closed-door policy pursued by European nations in
the exploitation of natural resources in Europe, Asia and Africa might make
it impossible some day for the United States to obtain all the petroleum she
needs, especially in view of the geologic surveys indicating that we have
passed the peak of our oil production.
Dr. Rappard delivered a course of lectures on the League, under the
title “International Relations as Viewed From Geneva." Future peace, he
asserted, depends on the nations organizing themselves into a world state on
the model of the League.
“The essential aim of the League, the substitution of law and order for
chaos in international relations," he said, "is so absolutely beneficial and so
clearly in the line of human evolution that no one but a madman or a
criminal can repudiate it. At in the course of history the instinct of
preservation drove individuals into organizing their groups into states, so,
I am convinced, states cannot indefinitely live together on the globe without
organizing themselves into some kind of larger political unit for the mutual
protection of its component parts. That, as I see it, is but a matter of time.
As a citizen of a country (Switzerland) that witnessed at close quarters the
destructive fury of the last war, I would add that it is high time that they
did so, if civilization is to survive.
"It appears to me that this larger political unit in its first stages must
inevitably, in its structure and functions, resemble the present league, as
outlined in the covenant. This league is yet very far from fulfilling the
purpose for which it was created, and in spite of many admirable and useful
efforts its present status and achievements still fall far short of the hopes
and ambitions raised by its founders. This is due in part to the fact that
the mills of history grind very slowly, whereas human imagination flashes
as lightning when once it has been stirred by intolerable suffering or fired
by great visions. It is also due to many unfavorable circumstances sur-
rounding the birth of the League, the most decisive of which has been the
absence of Germany, Russia and, above all, the United States."
Count Antonio Cippico, Italian Senator and Fascist, who lectured on
"The Mediterranean Area and Italy," proposed as a solution for Italy's
problems-overpopulation, absence of raw materials and lack of overseas
colonies to which she can ship her surplus inhabitants—that the other powers
should provide Italy with colonies, or allow Italian immigrants to live and
work in groups within foreign countries without sacrificing their Italian
citizenship or cutting their political ties with their homeland. A peaceable
solution of this nature, he intimated, is necessary if the problems of Italy are
to be settled without war.
"There are, over the world, waste areas, underpopulated and under-
developed, crying for labor," he said. "Italy is almost the only country that
can supply it. The advantages of Italian labor are so great that the country
which receives it should be prepared to make generous concessions."
In particular he urged that France give Italy the right to expand by
emigration in North Africa, especially in Tunis.
Robert Masson, Director of the Credit Lyonnais, French banking institu-
tion, lecturing on "Peace Problems of France," suggested that the creditors
of France give her a five-year moratorium after her war debts are funded, in
order that she may devote the reparation payments she receives from Ger-
many under the Dawes plan to the completing of her reconstruction program.


  p. 2035 (#979)                      #

1925)
2035
Professional Notes
He said that France already spent about $9,500,000,000 on this work, and
needed to spend about $1,000,000,000 more, particularly in rebuilding homes.
Regarding criticisms of French expenditures on arms he said that, com-
pared with days before the war, France has reduced expenditures for arm-
ament, including colonies, by 14 per cent, while the United States has in-
creased such expenditures 97 per cent, and Great Britain had increased them
40 per cent.
Count Alexander Skrzynski, Foreign Minister of Poland, who lectured
on Poland, proposed for Europe a "Pax Americana," which would suppress
traditional antagonisms and lead to "real brotherhood” and “the obliteration
of the physical barriers of fear, suspicion and hatred.” He expressed the
hope for an "Americanization" of Europe, a “United States of Europe" on
democratic lines, for the protection of the Continent from Bolshevism on
one hand and nationalist militarism on the other.
Felix Valyi, Hungarian by birth and editor of the Revue Politique Inter-
nationale, which was published in Paris before the war and in Switzerland
during the war, declared in an address that the great problems of the future
depend upon Asia, because the Western nations cannot continue to exist
without food from the Orient; and that the peaceable solution of these ques-
tions depends upon the recognition of Islam as a spiritual force on the
basis of moral equality.
CURRENT PROFESSIONAL NOTES AND PAPERS
"Oil Pollution and Separatora" (Report of British Board of Trade).
The Marine Engineer and Motorship Builder, August, 1925.
“Ordnance Activities in Hawaii.” Army Ordnance, July-August, 1925.
"Some Future Problems in Engineering.” The Journal of the Franklin
Institute, August, 1925.
“The Present Meteorological Needs of Aeronautics.” U. S. Air Services,
August, 1925.
"Tests of Some Rust Prevention Materials for the Protection of Stored
Material.” Engineering, July 31, 1925.
“Relations of Land and Sea Power.” The Coast Artillery Journal, May
and August, 1925.
“Corps Anti-Aircraft Artillery on the Defensive.” The Coast Artillery
Journal, August, 1925.
“Determining the Vacuum Correction Curves for Turbine Units.” Power,
August 11, 1925.
The Great Pacific War. H. C. Bywater, Constable and Company, London.
“Pulverized Fuel in its Relation to Modern Power Plant Design." En-
gineering, July 31, 1925.


  p. 2036 (#980)                      #

NOTES ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
FROM AUGUST 7 TO SEPTEMBER 7
PREPARED BY
PROFESSOR ALLAN WESTCOTT, U. S. NAVAL ACADEMY
FRANCO-GERMAN SECURITY NEGOTIATIONS
PRELIMINARY CONFERENCE DECIDED UPON.–Following an exchange of
notes at the close of August, Germany agreed to take part in a conference
of legal experts in London on August 31 to draw up treaty projects that
might serve as a basis of future discussion. It was expected that Foreign
Minister Stresemann would meet the Allied foreign ministers at Lausanne
about September 15 and arrange for a security conference to be held probably
in Brussels during October.
The French note to Germany iwas made public on August 26. It was
friendly in tone and constituted practically a proposal that Germany open
direct negotiations. The note took up three main points. First, as regarded
possible modification of existing treaties, it was reiterated that "the security
pact could not affect the provisions of the Versailles Treaty relating to the
occupation of the Rhineland.” Second, Germany must enter the League of
Nations without special conditions. Third, the arbitration treaties to be
negotiated between Germany and the states on her frontiers should provide
for arbitration of political as well as strictly juridical questions. The state
refusing to arbitrate would automatically become the aggressor. The part
of the note relating to Germany's entry into the League was of especial
interest in view of the opening of the League Assembly at Geneva on
September 7.
The German reply was brief and expressed merely Germany's preference
for oral discussions and agreement to send representatives to London.
FRANCE
PEACE OFFERS TO RIFF WITHDRAWN.-On August 20 France and Spain
decided to withdraw their peace offers to the Riffian chief Abd-el-Krim,
and so informed their delegates who had been for a month awaiting Riff
emissaries at Melilla. Spanish reinforcements having arrived in Morocco
and the French forces increased to about 120,000, it was believed that
offensive operations in the autumn would bring the Riff leader to terms.
The aims of Abd-el-Krim, as stated in various sources, appeared to be to
force France and Spain to recognize an autonomous Riff state. His peace


  p. 2037 (#981)                      #

1925]
2037
Notes on International Affairs
conditions, published in the Paris Quotidien on July 23, were substantially
these :
That the Riffs' independence be recognized and guaranteed by the League
of Nations, with a status similar to that of Afghanistan; that the governor
of the Riff shall have the title of Ameer and be nominally subject to the
Sultan of Morocco; that certain boundaries approximating those held by the
Riffian troops at present shall be recognized Riffian frontier; that Spain
may retain Ceuta and Melilla with sufficient surrounding territory for their
defense; that the Riffian Government shall be permitted to maintain a stand-
ing army, the size of which shall be fixed by experts; that Pan-Islamic
propaganda in the French Protectorate shall cease; that no reparations shall
be exacted on either side ; that the League of Nations shall grant the Riffian
Republic a moderate credit to enable it to carry on temporarily until a fiscal
system can be established. Certain minor conditions are attached.
DEBT AGREEMENTS
BELGIUM Signs Debt FUNDING TERMS.—On August 18 the Belgian and
United States commissions negotiating a settlement of the Belgian debt to
the United States reached complete agreement. According to the terms of
settlement signed on that date, the total amount to be paid is $727,830,000,
of which $246,000,000 is post-Armistice debt, $171,780,000 is pre-Armistice
debt, and the remaining $310,050,500 is interest on the post-Armistice debt
at 3.5 per cent. Owing to the "weighty moral obligation" recognized by the
United States negotiators in view of President Wilson's promises to Belgium
at Versailles, all interest charges on the pre-Armistice debt were canceled.
Treasury officials, however, made clear that this moral obligation would not
obtain in the case of other nations.
According to the agreement, payments are spread over a period of sixty-
two years, being smaller during the first ten years, and amounting to about
$12,700,000 annually thereafter.
TENTATIVE FRANCO-BRITISH AGREEMENT.-On August 26 it was an-
nounced from London that the British and French Commissions, headed
respectively by Chancellor of the Exchequer Winston Churchill and Finance
Minister Caillaux, had reached conditional agreement on terms for payment
of the debt of France to Great Britain. The terms of this agreement pro-
vide for sixty-two annual payments of £12,500,000, or a total of £775,000,000.
Great Britain's acceptance of these terms, in which the interest rate is only
2 per cent, is made conditional, however, upon acceptance of similar terms
for payment of the French debt to the United States. In other words, to
secure these terms from England, France must persuade the American Debt
Commission to accept a 2 per cent interest rate on the French debt to the
United States, whereas the rate secured from Belgium was 3.5 per cent.
Thus the question whether or not the debt of France to her allies is to be
treated on a purely business basis is "put up” to the American Commission.
Other conditions of the agreement are that payments shall be purely from
French resources without drawing upon French receipts from Germany
through the Dawes plan, and that a moratorium shall be granted till 1930.


  p. 2038 (#982)                      #

2038
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
• The agreement was preceded by a reduction of the British demands from
£20,000,000 a year to £16,000,000, and a French counter-proposal of
£10,000,000 a year.
..
UNITED STATES AND LATIN AMERICA
AMERICAN FOREIGN INVESTMENTS.According to a summary in the
Literary Digest of August 8, the total investments of American capital in
foreign government and industrial securities amounted to $9,522,000,000,
which was more than three times the amount at the beginning of the World
War. Thus, said the Wall Street Journal, "whether we like it or not, com-
merce and finance have forever disposed of the doctrine of isolation. With
such a stake in other countries, we.cannot remain aloof."
Figures of the Department of Commerce show foreign investments of
United States capital (classified geographically, and excluding inter-govern-
ment war debts) as follows:
1. Government guaranteed obligations-
Canada and Newfoundland. .................... $1,125,000,000
Latin America ....
915,000,000
Europe ...
1,665,000,000
Asia and Oceanica..........
442,000,000
Total .............
$4,147,000,000
2. Industrial securities and direct investments-
Canada and Newfoundland..
$1,420,000,000
Latin America ....
........... 3,225,000,000
Europe ....................
........ 450,000,000
Asia and Oceanica ........
280,000,000
.....
......
.......
$5,375,000,000
Total .........
In total the figures are as follows:
Canada and Newfoundland.
Latin America ...................
Europe .......
Asia and Oceanica..........
$2,545,000,000
4,140,000,000
2,115,000,000
722,000,000
. . Total ..........
$9,522,000,000
ENGLAND AND Mexico RESUME RELATIONS.—It was announced on
August 28 that the British Government had decided to renew diplomatic
relations with Mexico, and that the British Consul General in Mexico City
would be appointed Chargé d'Affaires pending the appointment of a Min-
ister. There has been no British Minister in Mexico since 1914, and the
British Chargé was withdrawn last year after difficulties with the Mexican
Government.
FAR EAST
CHINESE Customs CONFERENCE.—In the middle of August the Chinese
Government extended invitations to a customs conference to assemble at
Peking on October 26, in accordance with the terms of the Nine Power


  p. 2039 (#983)                      #

1925)
2039
Notes on International Affairs
Treaty adopted at Washington in 1922 and recently ratified. The nations
participating will include the nations signatory to the treaty (United States,
Great Britain, Japan, France, Italy, Portugal, Netherlands, Belgium, and
China), and other nations which have announced adherence, including
Spain, Denmark, Norway, and Peru. The original purpose of the confer-
ence was to grant China a 21/2 per cent increase in customs duties, but it is
expected that China will ask for a 5 per cent further increase and for com-
plete customs autonomy.
On August 25 it was announced that the treaty powers were in agreement
respecting their reply to the Chinese notes of last June asking for a general
revision of the so-called "unequal treaties," and that a reply would soon be
delivered, the exact phraseology to be determined by the diplomatic corps
at Peking. The reply will not take up the question of the Shanghai riots,
which will be treated in another note, but will cover the question of the
scope of the coming customs conference and the views of the powers on
the convening of a commission to investigate the question of extra-terri-
toriality.
China TURNING TO Russia.—In an address at Williamstown on August
14, Dr. Charles K. Edmunds, Provost of Johns Hopkins University and
former resident for twenty years in China, made the following points re-
garding the relations between China and the western powers:
China is coming strongly under the influence of Russia, although not
primarily through Bolshevik propaganda.
The reported present stand of the British Government toward China is
illogical, unjust and dangerous. That stand is said to be that no interna-
tional action can be taken on China's complaints against extra-territoriality
until a reliable central government is established and conditions at treaty
ports become normal.
The powers, in exceeding their treaty rights, are assisting the growth of
friendship between China and non-treaty nations-Germany, Austria, and
Russia.
France's failure to ratify the treaty formed at the Washington Confer-
ence to give China relief from foreign tariff manipulations has exposed the
good faith of the powers to serious question in Chinese minds.
The task of foreign powers in China for the next five years will be to
convince China of the sincerity of their willingness to give up special privi-
leges, and also of the wisdom of relinquishing them only as China shows
herself capable of carrying the increased responsibility.
The influence of Russia in China today is due primarily not to Bolshevik
propaganda but to the generous way in which Moscow has voluntarily aban-
doned the special privileges formerly enjoyed by the Russian empire in
common with other imperialistic powers.
She has given up the claim to immunity from the Chinese law, still en-
joyed by British, Americans, Japanese and others. She has relinquished
her territorial concessions, with the exception of the railway across Man-
churia, which, being a link in the trans-Siberian line to Vladivostok, is more
justifiable than any of the other railway concessions in China.
She has remitted all claim to the Boxer indemnity and other debts due
to the Czar's Government. She no longer shares in the control of China's
finances, as the other powers do. Soviet doctrine has gained a hearing be-
cause of Russia's conduct toward the Chinese nation. We should be fair


  p. 2040 (#984)                      #

2040
(Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
enough to admit that except for the content of their message the methods
of the Soviets do not differ essentially from those of the Christian missions.
With China thoroughly worked up, it is putting the cart before the horse
to say, as Britain is reported, that no consideration will be given complaints
until law and order are restored. Until China is given adequate authority
over territory nominally Chinese, no central government can accomplish what
the powers seem to demand. To establish a workable permanent under-
standing between China and foreigners, there is need for the powers to
scrutinize their own acts, to adopt a most scrupulous regard for the rights
of the Chinese people as distinct from the claims of the successive temporary
central governments, and thus definitely to allay the Chinese belief that
China is being used only to produce wealth for outsiders.
Concerning foreign control of Chinese tariff, Dr. Edmunds declared that
China never knowingly granted any such control as now prevails and places
China in a unique position among the nations. At the time of the Washing-
ton Conference (1921-22) China had been bound eighty years by treaty to a
nominal tariff on imports of 5 per cent; in practice, 3.5 per cent. Having
asked for an increase to 12 per cent, he said, she obtained an effective 5
per cent as of January 1, 1923, with a promise of further increase, to be
decided upon by a conference within three months after ratification. Until
China should agree to pay her Boxer indemnity in gold instead of paper
francs, France refused to sign this treaty.
Discussing the working of the extra-territorial system, Dr. Edmunds
declared that it was objectionable to the Chinese because it was a derogation
of their territorial sovereignty and a national humiliation. Not only does
it interfere with the proper functioning of the Chinese courts, he said, but
it has disadvantages for the foreigner. As long as it prevails, he showed,
foreign residence, except for missionaries, trade and manufacturing, are
limited to the treaty ports. To Russians, Germans and Austrians, and the
nationals of all non-treaty nations the entire country is open.
Preparatory to the rendering of effective justice in the event of the abo-
lition of extra-territorial rights, Dr. Edmunds said China has been framing
five new codes of lawy, some of which have been in provisional force since
1921. A law codification commission composed of able and experienced
Chinese justices, has been sitting since 1914, assisted by French and Japanese
experts. The criminal code was published in English in 1919 and in French
in 1920. Civil and commercial codes are in preparation.
WILLIAMSTOWN INSTITUTE OF POLITICS
Fifth SESSION IN AUGUST.—The fifth session of the Institute of Politics
at Williamstown, Massachusetts, took place during the month of August.
Round table discussions and conferences were held on United States Foreign
Policy, Inter-American Relations, Economic Recovery of Europe, the Med-
iterranean Area, Mineral Resources, International Justice, the British Com-
monwealth of Nations, and other topics of current international interest.
Among points raised in the discussions may be noted the following:
Necessity of War.–Senator Count Cippico of Italy declared that war
was "a cruel necessity." "Each nation has to defend its own right to exist,
to remedy the defects of its geographical, political, or economic situation
in the world, to make good its own individual civilization as opposed to the
inferior civilizations of other peoples.” In support of this view and in oppo-
sition to the belief that reduction of armaments would bring peace, Rear
Admiral W. W. Phelps, U. S. N., said that “Disarmament talk is foolish-


  p. 2041 (#985)                      #

1925)
2041
Notes on International Affairs
ness while economic conflict remains. War is a continuation of national
policy."
Balkan Situation.—Dr. Bernadotte E. Schmitt of Germany, head of the
Round Table on European Problems, pointed out that more or less binding
agreements now exist between ten of the fourteen states between the Baltic
and the Ægean, and that the next fifteen or fifty years might see the other
four (Lithuania, Hungary, Bulgaria, and Albania) brought into this rela-
tionship. Dr. Valyi, editor of the Paris Revue Politique Internationale,
contended that the Little Entente of Rumania, Czecho-Slovakia, and Jugo-
Slavia was maintaining a "spirit of distrust and disequilibrium" in Central
Europe, and visualized a "Hungarian peril" that did not really exist.
Immigration. In opposition to the appeal of Count Cippico of Italy for
outlets for Italy's surplus population, Professor E. M. East, of Harvard,
declared that birth control rather than emigration was the only rational
solution of Italy's population problem. In support of the restriction of
immigration to the United States he offered the following decalogue of
arguments :
1. Emigration forced as an economic necessity by population density
affords no permanent relief to the homeland, because the ensuing birth
release re-establishes the old equilibrium.
2. Conditions in this country are today and will continue to be such that
newcomers will meet increasingly bitter competition, which must be accepted
under unfamiliar conditions and often with a linguistic handicap.
3. Immigrants who come with a lower standard of living tend to reduce
our own standards.
4. Immigrants who are relatively incompetent when compared with the
native—and there are many such-are expensive employes because of our
tendency to think in terms of a minimum wage.
5. Incompetent immigrants are expensive fellow-citizens, because they
add to the tax rates; that is to say, they require more than a fair share of
the public money to be spent for benevolent institutions.
6. Huge numbers of foreign-born lead to a foreign policy based on ex-
pediency rather than sound principles. There are numerous groups to
placate.
7. Large groups of foreign-born prevent us from developing a unified
national culture.
8. Excessively rapid growth leads to the dissipation of natural resources
too quickly.
9. Immigrant competition tends to sterilize the native population.
10. Immigration, when forced by economic necessity, tends to lower the
biological quality of the race.
Suez Less Vital in British Strategy.-Major General Sir Frederick
Maurice, of London, at the open conference on "The British Commonwealth
of Nations," said that the British no longer regarded the Suez Canal as
vital from the viewpoint of military strategy.
"Strategy," he went on, “depends on time and space, which have changed
enormously in the last twenty years, wireless and every kind of improvement
altering the relation of time to space. In consequence of the changes in
locomotion, it is not true today that the Suez Canal is a vital artery. That
was proved by a demonstration during the war, because the Mediterranean
being a closed sea with any number of inlets and small harbors, became a
happy hunting ground for submarines, and so dangerous for the transports


  p. 2042 (#986)                      #

2042
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
and supplies from Australia and New Zealand that we were forced back
into using the Cape route.
"The actual distance around the Cape is in round figures 10,000 miles, and
by the Suez Canal it is 8,000 miles, and you have got the delay of getting
through the canal. The time distance around the Cape, as compared to the
canal from a military point of view, is not more than three days longer.
"As regards the route to Australia, the conditions are even more favor-
able to the Cape route. The actual distance from Southampton by the Cape
to Melbourne is 11,000 miles and the route through the Suez canal is 10,300
miles—700 miles difference.
“But the real point is this: It is a matter of supreme importance that
this route, the route across the Indian Ocean, should not be flanked by any
power coming out of the Mediterranean. Therefore, the points that are
vitally strategical are the issues from the Mediterranean into the Atlantic
and into the Indian Ocean. That is to say, Gibraltar and Aden are really
the vital defense of the Indian Ocean, not the Suez Canal.”
Roads to Peace.-Summarizing the conclusions of the Round Table on
Disarmament, of which he was chairman, General Sir Frederick Maurice
of England said that the failure of the Geneva proctocol and the treaty of
mutual guarantee showed that the machinery of the League was incapable
of settling the disarmament question by a general treaty. On the other
hand, he asserted, the negotiation of separate security compacts which would
remove the fear of attack in European countries will remove the obstacle
to disarmament. When the European nations feel safe, he declared, they
will reduce armaments in order to reduce the tax burden and to remove the
danger of militarism.
Dr. Rappard, of Switzerland, declared he did not agree with General
Maurice that the machinery of the League had proved unfit to deal with the
problem of disarmament, and that he did not think any one security compact
would bring about disarmament. Arguing on behalf of a general treaty
instead of separate compacts, he pointed out that the British had refused
until a month ago to consider anything but a general agreement, and that
some of the British Dominions, notably Canada, oppose the security compact
on the grounds that the problem should be handled by the League and that
a general agreement would put them in less danger of becoming entangled
in another European war
"Prima facie, there is an advantage in dealing with a large number of
States rather than a small number when you deal with security," he said.
“There is another advantage if you deal with security with a view to se-
curing disarmament, and that is that the British have always consistently
maintained that there can be no disarmament except a general one."
Captain C. L. Hussey, United States Navy, attacked disarmament by
"artificial control” as of "doubtful efficiency," and urged Americans to
consider their national interests ahead of international questions.
"Heretofore,” he said, "limitation of armament has been governed largely
by natural forces, national in character. Now it is proposed to introduce
artificial control, international in character and of doubtful efficiency. Does
your own knowledge of world conditions lead you to believe that any nation
not compelled to do so should embark on such an 'adventure in faith'? What
evidence is there of any change in the basic policies of the world powers,
however dormant they may be at present by force of economic necessity ?
"Economic necessity has forced more and more dependence upon means
other than armed force for the support of policy. Let us, for convenience,
refer to these other means as the “unarmed forces.' As limitation of arma-
ment progresses, the unarmed forces become more and more important.
"Have the warm advocates of limitation given the same careful considera-


  p. 2043 (#987)                      #

1923]
2043
Notes on International Affairs
tion to the strength, character and organization of the 'unarmed forces' that
they have given to armaments? I beg Americans to do this before they
entrust voluntarily their security to an international organization. Can we
not retain control of our forces, our resources, and particularly American
standards of living, and through the powerful moral influence of which the
Williamstown Institute of Politics is such a worthy exponent contribute in
a larger measure to international welfare?
"Before reaching conclusions on international questions it will be well for
us to reflect upon our homes, our churches, our nation—the 'promotion of
American general welfare and common defense'-to quote from the preamble
of the Constitution of the United States of America, which our wise fore-
fathers left as a legacy for our guidance."
The phrase "Adventure in Faith" is that of Alanson B. Houghton,
American Ambassador at London, who is the "spiritual author" of the
present security compact, according to Professor Bernadotte Schmitt of the
University of Chicago, an institute round table leader. Ambassador Hough-
ton in a recent speech said that peace was an adventure in faith.
General Maurice, who previously had pointed out that President Coolidge
had given a "general blessing" to the security compact negotiations, re-
minded Captain Hussey that Great Britain and the European nations could
not refrain from limitation of armaments without breaking treaty obliga-
tions to do so.
Rear Admiral Huse, retired, urged the conscription of capital and labor
as well as man power in time of war, saying that France was on the eve
of adopting this plan. This kind of conscription, he went on, would act as
"a brake against war" and would "tend toward a reduction of fixed arma-
ments more than almost anything else.”
“This plan,” he continued, “invites the approval of military men because
it makes the nation enormously more powerful and therefore adds to its
security. It invites the approval of all lovers of peace—and this includes
all the military men I have ever met–because it tends to array both capital
and labor against war. Thus, on account of the great power it gives a
nation, such a nation is not likely to be attacked, and because of the oppo-
sition of capital and labor, such a nation is not likely to provoke war."
Miss Emily Green Balch, of Boston, economist, cautioned against adoption
of this plan, saying she believed it would work in favor of an outbreak of
war. It was pointed out here that the plan had been before the public for
some time, having been approved by the American Legion, and also that
Bernard Baruch of New York recently guaranteed at least $250,000 to the
Walter Hines Page School of Johns Hopkins University for a scientific
study of the question.
Sir Robert Borden, former Prime Minister of Canada, closed the debate
with the statement that while plans for international disarmament and arbi-
tration may be ineffective in preventing war they will be at least helpful and
will lead up to "the real great mission of the League—to bring about that
moral and spiritual disarmament without which all these other movements
are in vain."
American Foreign Policy.—The attitude of the United States toward
the League of Nations, China, and Latin-America was debated at the open
conference on "Recent Foreign Policy of the United States."
Professor George H. Blakeslee of Clark University, the open conference
leader, questioned two statements made about American foreign policy at
previous meetings. As to charges that the United States showed a reluc-
tance to define its foreign policies, he pointed out that the Monroe Doctrine
and the open door principle had both been officially defined during the life
of the present Administration. He also challenged the statement that this


  p. 2044 (#988)                      #

2044
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Instiute Proceedings
country had been inconsistent in its foreign policy, citing our unchanging
support of the Monroe Doctrine.
Commenting on the trend of events that bring America into European
problems, Professor Blakeslee pointed out that the agreement this country
signed in Paris last January gave it a "stake" of $600,000,000 in the success
of the Dawes plan, and might tempt the United States in the future to use
its political and economic influence to see that the plan succeeds.
He defined the general foreign policy of this country as "regional." It
was held, he went on, that the League of Nations is primarily a European
political organization, which was called upon, except for the mandates,
almost exclusively to deal with local European issues, and that the United
States ought not to participate with the League in such matters.
Arbitration, limitation of armament, the holding of special conferences
and the dealing with specific controversies as they arise, he went on, was
America's official formula for promoting the peace of the world.
Suggesting that the United States might solve its problem if dealing with
world affairs by becoming an "associate" member of the League, Professor
Blakeslee said:
"There must be a grouping of nations to serve at least as a forum to dis-
cuss international problems before they cause war. Such is the belief of
the majority of the world, and the only existing international organization
is the League. The United States, because of its policy of political isola-
tion toward Europe, cannot join the League. The opinion is held by some
that the United States should become an associate member of the League,
avoiding issues local to Europe and dealing only with problems that threaten
a world war."
Professor Blakeslee pointed out that a serious problem arose from the
membership of eighteen of the twenty Latin-American republics in the
League, while the United States remained outside.
"If Latin America," he said, “should have its disputes dealt with regu-
larly at Geneva, and its common interests passed upon there, it would largely
destroy the leadership of the United States in the Western Hemisphere. It
is also possible that irritating international difficulties may develop if the
League attempted to enforce Articles X and XVI of the covenant in the
case of war between two Carribean American republics.
"Should the League attempt to boycott a Central American republic or
to induce European and Asiatic warships and troops to come to the protec-
tion of a Latin American republic near the United States, it might not be a
violation of the Monroe Doctrine, but it would doubtless be strongly re-
sented by the Government and people of the United States."
Professor Blakeslee hoped that the League and the Pan-American Union
would supplement each other instead of coming into conflict, and suggested
that the League give an elastic interpretation to the Monroe Doctrine as a
means to this end.


  p. 2045 (#989)                      #

BOOK REVIEWS
A COMPANION TO THE AZIMUTH TABLES. By H. B.
Goodwin, M.A., F.R.A.S., formerly Examiner in Navigation
and Nautical Astronomy under His Britannic Majesty's Board
of Education. Glasgow: James Brown and Son, Nautical Pub-
lishers, 1925.
REVIEWED BY G. W. LITTLEHALES, HYDROGRAPHIC ENGINEER
The reputation of Professor Goodwin as the leading author in pointing
the way to improvements in the applications of astronomy to the practice
of navigation in the present generation is fully sustained in this excellent
work, the contents of which are worthy of the fine execution which makes its
issue a credit to the nautical publishing house of James Brown and Son,
of Glasgow. A master of clear and pleasing presentation, drawing upon the
rich accumulations of a career devoted to improving the insight of navigators
into those applications of science without which no cargo is ever exported or
brought home across the sea, here brings to the understanding of seafarers
a knowledge of the varied ways in which the tables that have been provided
for their use may be made conveniently to subserve their requirements in the
practice of navigation.
It is of great practical advantage to the navigator to learn to be recource-
ful in the use of equipment-to know, for instance, how the solar azimuth
tables may serve to yield values of the azimuth of celestial bodies beyond
ecliptic limits, and how the tabulated values of the azimuth may be employed
to find the course to be steered in pursuing a great circle route in any
latitude. Looking beyond the present great importance of the azimuth in
finding the error of the compass and indicating the direction of the Sumner
line of position, there are indications of the endeavor to employ the observed
value of this element in combination with the observed altitude of the same
celestial body in finding in a single operation both the latitude and longitude
of the observer: Thus it is that ample justification exists for regarding
as important the considerations which the author has introduced with
reference to conditions favorable to each of the various methods of finding
the azimuth.
His fructifying touch has not been reserved alone to the British azimuth
tables, but has been bestowed also upon the altitude and hour angle tables
of recent times to show the expedients, in the form of convenient inter-
polation tables, that may be employed for their more perfect use.


  p. 2046 (#990)                      #

2046
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Those interests which take account of the necessities of aviation at sea
from the fleet as a base will welcome the inclusion in this book of an
exposition of the original manner in which astronomical position-finding in
flight over the ocean was made to succeed by Rear Admiral Carlos Gago
Coutinho and Commander Sacadura Cabral in the airplane voyage which
these two Portuguese naval officers made from Lisbon to Rio de Janeiro in
the spring of the year 1922.
Indeed, to take the time to read the one hundred or so pages of this book
opens one of the most direct avenues toward becoming well read in the
resources available in the practice of nautical astronomy.


  p. 2047 (#991)                      #

SECRETARY'S NOTES
Membership New members joining since last report:
Pogue, W. G., Ensign, U.S.N.
Hussey, A. Rodman, Mr.
Scarborough, J. B., Prof., U.S.N.A.
For those interested in international
Williamstown Institute
politics, attention is invited to the Pro-
of Politics
fessional Notes and International
Notes in this issue, containing articles on the Williamstown In-
stitute of Politics.
The Institute desires articles of interest to all branches
Articles of the service, including the reserve force. Non-
members as well as members may submit articles, and
authors receive due compensation for articles published. Com-
pact, well digested articles are more likely to be accepted for
early publication. In accepting articles for publication, the In-
stitute reserves the right to have such articles revised or rearranged,
where necessary, in order to bring them up to the required stand-
ard of articles published in the PROCEEDINGS—the cost, if any, to
be deducted from the compensation due the author.
Contributors are requested to observe the following special in-
structions in preparing articles for the PROCEEDINGS:
(a) In writing names of ships put only the initial letters in
capitals and underscore the names. The underscoring sig.
nifies to the printer that the word is to be in italics. The
same applies to names of publications. Foreign words not
anglicized should also be italicized.
(b) In preparing tables and computations employing fractions,
sub-numbers, etc., do by hand that part which cannot be
made perfectly clear by the typewriter.
(c) In typing the script use double space between lines.
(d) When a quotation is included in an article the editor should
be assured by appropriate notation that the writer has care-
fully verified the quotation as presented.


  p. 2048 (#992)                      #

2018
[Oct.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The Naval Institute wishes to announce
1863 Edition
to the membership that the Institute's
of
Library has been presented with an 1863
Luce's "Seamanship”
P edition of Luce's “Seamanship," by Lieu-
tenant John M. Gill, U.S.N.R., which had been in his family for
many years. The title page shows that it was printed when the
Naval Academy was moved to Newport, R.I., during the Civil
War.
"Naval Ordnance, 1921” is now under revision. The
New
new book will be ready for issue about November 15,
Books
and will be known as “Naval Ordnance, 1925." It will
retail at $8.00 per copy, postpaid.
In the past, many errors have resulted from the
Address of
habit of changing an officer's address as soon
Members
as his transfer orders are published in the papers.
No change will be made in the future except upon receipt of
notification by the member concerned. Reliance upon the former
method may, in extreme cases, mean a delay of almost four
months. To insure the prompt delivery of the PROCEEDINGS and
other communications from the U. S. Naval Institute, it is essen-
tial that members and subscribers notify the Secretary-Treasurer
without delay of every change of address. No responsibility can
be accepted for failure to receive the PROCEEDINGS, where mem-
bers fail to comply with this rule. Changes of address should
reach the Institute by the 20th of the month, to be effective for the
issue of the PROCEEDINGS of the following month.
The Institute desires to obtain a copy of
Jane's
Jane's "Fighting Ships, 1924," the edition
“Fighting Ships”
of which is exhausted; and requests that
(1924)
anyone wishing to dispose of a copy com-
municate with the Naval Institute, stating price desired and con-
dition of book.
H. A. BALDRIDGE,
Captain, U. S. Navy, Secretary-Treasurer.


  p. 2048 (#993)                      #

neering
OCT 3 1 1920
VERDEN
United States
Naval Institute
Proceedings
VOL. 51
NOVEMBER, 1925
NO. 273


NST
AL
CD
NAD
NAVAT
ACADEMY
U.S. a
POJAS
TE
CX
SUN
SCIENTIA
CONTENTS
.
.
.
.
·
The Three Craftsmen.-Eller . . . . . . .
The Attempted Mutiny on the U. S. Brig "Somers."—Hunt .
Engineering Economy on Auxiliary Vessels.-Smith . . .
Standing One.-Weber and Styer . . . . . . . .
Post-Treaty Naval Design-Bywater and Prendergast. .
Vest Pocket Ballistics.-Wright. .
The Navigator's Notebook.–Weems . . . . . .
Radio Vision.- Jenkins . . .
Discussion . . . . . . .
Professional Notes . .
Notes on International Affairs .
Book Reviews . . . . .
Secretary's Notes . . . . . . . . . . . .
2049
2062
2101
2110
2125
2138
2139
2150
2156
2175
2212
2218
2229
· ·
::::
·
·
.


  p. 2048 (#994)                      #


FUEL OIL
GAS OIL
DIESEL OIL
There is more power in
THAT GOOD GULF GASOLINE
and
SUPREME AUTO OIL
GULF REFINING COMPANY
New York
Boston
New Orleans
Philadelphia
Atlanta
Houston
General Sales Office
PITTSBURGH, PA.


  p. 2048 (#995)                      #

United States
Naval Institute
Proceedings
November, 1925
Edited by H. A. Baldridge

CONNU
IN
NS TO
VAL
U.S.NET
TUT
lo 1 873
U. S. Naval Institute
Publication Office: Menasha, Wisconsin
Editorial and Business Office: Annapolis, Maryland


  p. 2048 (#996)                      #

1855. CRAVE V AL VES.. 1925

CRANE OVERBOARD DISCHARGE VALVE WITH SPECIAL BRASS
MARINE COMPOSITION TRIMMINGS
We can supply any valve
or fitting for any ship
CRANE
Address all inquiries so Crane Co., Chicago
GENERAL OFFICES: CRANE BUILDING, 836 S. MICHIGAN AVENUE, CHICAGO
Branches and Sales Offices in One Hundred and Fifty Cities
National Exhibit Rooms: Chicago, New York, Atlantic City, San Francisco and Mentreal
Works: Chicago, Bridgeport, Birmingham, Chattanooga, Trenton and Montreal
CRANE EXPORT CORPORATION: NEW YORK, SAN FRANCISCO, SHANGHAI
CRANE LIMITED: CRANE BUILDING, 886 BEAVER HALL SQUARE, MONTREAL
CRANE-BENNETT, LTD., LONDON
C9 CRANE: PARIS, NANTES, BRUSSELS


  p. 2048 (#997)                      #

UNITED STATES
NAVAL INSTITUTE
P R x C E E D I N G s
Vol. No. 51, No. 11
NOVEMBER, 1925
WHOLE No. 273
Contents
2049
.......
2101
THE THREE CRAFTSMEN. BY MIDSHIPMAN (Now ENSIGN)
ERNEST M. ELLER, U. S. Navy......
THE ATTEMPTED MUTINY ON THE U. S. BRIG "SOMERS." By
REAR ADMIRAL LIVINGSTON HUNT, (SC), U.S.N., RET. 2062
ENGINEERING ECONOMY ON AUXILIARY VESSELS. BY COM-
MANDER R. R. Smith, U. S. Navy.......
STANDING ONE. BY LIEUTENANTS GEORGE K. WEBER AND
C. W. STYER, U. S. Navy.........
2110
Post TREATY NAVAL DESIGN. BY HECTOR C. BYWATER AND
MAURICE PRENDERGAST.......
............... 2125
Vest Pocket BALLISTICS. BY LIEUTENANT W. L. WRIGHT,
U. S. Navy.......
........ 2138
THE NAVIGATOR'S NOTEBOOK. By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER
P. V. H. WEEMS, U. S. Navy............... 2139
Radio VISION. BY C. FRANCIS JENKINS...
2150
DISCUSSION ........
2156
PROFESSIONAL NOTES......
2175
NOTES ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
2212
BOOK REVIEWS
...... 2218
SECRETARY'S NOTES
...... 2229
The writers only are responsible for the contents of their respective articles
..
.
.
.
.......
.....
2 ISO
Editor, Captain H. A. Baldridge; Assistant Editor, Lieutenant Com-
mander R. S. Field.
Published monthly at 450 Ahnaip St., Menasha, Wis.
Executive, Editorial, and Business 'offices, ú. S. Naval Institute,
Annapolis, Md.
Entered as second-class matter at the post-office at Menasha, Wis.,
April 4, 1922, and at the post-office at Annapolis, Md., under Act of Aug. 24,
1912. Acceptance for mailing at the special rate of postage provided for
in section 1103, Act of Oct. 3, 1919, authorized Mar. 13, 1922.
Membership dues (including Proceedings), $3.00 a year.
Subscription Rates, $5.00 a year. (Foreign postage extra.) Single
copies, 50c.
Copyright, 1925, by U. S. Naval Institute


  p. 2048 (#998)                      #

OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTE
President
REAR ADMIRAL HENRY B. WILSON, U. S. Navy
. Vice-President
VICE ADMIRAL RICHARD H. JACKSON, U. S. NAVY
Secretary-Treasurer
CAPTAIN H. A. BALDRIDGE, U. S. Navy
Board of Control
REAR ADMIRAL HENRY B. WILSON, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD H. JACKSON, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
BRIGADIER GENERAL GEORGE RICHARDS, U. S. MARINE CORPS
CAPTAIN W. T. CLUVERIUS, U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN W. G. DUBOSE, (CC), U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN P. B. DUNGAN, U. S. Navy
COMMANDER BYRON MCCANDLESS, U. S. Navy
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER W. G. GREENMAN, U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN H. A. BALDRIDGE, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
PAST PRESIDENTS
ADMIRAL DAVID 5. PORTER, U. S. Navy, 1873
REAR ADMIRAL JOHN L. WORDEN, U. S. Navy, 1874
REAR ADMIRAL C. R. P. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1875-78
COMMODORE FOXHALL A. PARKER, U. S. Navy, 1878-79
REAR ADMIRAL JOHN RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1879-82
REAR ADMIRAL C. R. P. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1882-83
REAR ADMIRAL THORNTON A. JENKINS, U. S. Navy, 1883-85
REAR ADMIRAL EDWARD SIMPSON, U. S. NAVY, 1885-87
REAR ADMIRAL STEPHEN B. LUCE, U. S. Navy, 1887-98
REAR ADMIRAL WM. T. SAMPSON, U. S. Navy, 1898-1902
Rear ADMIRAL H. C. TAYLOR, U. S. Navy, 1902-04
REAR ADMIRAL C. F. GOODRICH, U. S. Navy, 1904-09
REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD WAINWRIGHT, U. S. Navy, 1909-11
REAR ADMIRAL BRADLEY A. FISKE, U. S. Navy, 1911-23
REAR ADMIRAL WILLIAM L. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1923-24


  p. 2048 (#999)                      #



  p. 2048 (#1000)                      


('ourtexy of the Metroli oldurun Pictures Corporation
THE NAVAL ACADEMY CHAPEL AT NIGHT


  p. 2049 (#1001)                      

UNITED STATES
NAVAL INSTITUTE
PRO CE E DINGS
Vol. No. 51, No. 11 November, 1925 Whole No. 273
THE THREE CRAFTSMEN
AND THE PART OF THE NAVAL ACADEMY IN THE
MOULD OF A MAN
By MIDSHIPMAN (Now ENSIGN) ERNEST M. ELLER, U. S. Navy
If midnight study and instruction of the greatest and most learned sea
officers have given me advantages, I am not without them.
JOHN PAUL JONES
IN THIS, the mechanical age of the world, when steel and iron
and machinery of a thousand myriad shapes unite to form the
network of life, we are like to believe that man is made up of
a thousand parts and by a thousand workmen. But in our super-
ficial glancing, we mistake the many touches of a master hand for
that of different workers—there are but three skilled craftsmen
who fashion this intricate mind of ours; we say mind, for in the
face of the unchained soul the body is no more than the globe that
frames a light, necessary in its function but only the servant of the
magic force it holds. The first of these is commonly called
Heredity—varying, unseen, silent in his work, his part in the
building is little known and less understood. The second, and
probably the leader of the three, is study or Reflection-strong,
powerful, daring, he opens a vista that leaves the frame of life
limited only by the distant shadows in which even the imagination
becomes lost. And the last, Environment, surroundings, or what
you will, is a queer fellow, for he seems to work fitfully and in
strange starts. At times he will reach even higher than his great
leader, and at others, he will no more than touch the structure of
a human life.


  p. 2050 (#1002)                      

2050
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The first craftsman, of whom our knowledge is so small, is little,
if at all, controllable; the latter two are willful, but the strong
mind can bend them to his wishes. And here—can you not see
it?-lie once and for all the limits that bound a man's soul. If
a man shall stand before the two servants and force them resolutely
and unswervingly to his own will, then there are no heights which
he cannot reach, no end he cannot attain. Whereas, if he turns
himself into the servant and sways to their every whim, then
he becomes that pitied creature, the plaything of fate. Between
we have the many steps, as there must be from emperor to craven,
and each is a factor determined by the amount one controls these
two workmen; not by one's ability, for ability is built up by these
craftsmen guided by the will.
That success in any line of endeavor is measured by a man's
rule over these two servants is true, but it is particularly true to
an officer who must depend upon control of circumstances not
only for his own success but for his very life, and more, for
the lives of thousands of others. And it is the realization of this
that has been the distinguishing mark between Napoleon or Nelson
or Jones, and their host of minor contemporaries.
It is the impression of the average layman that great military
leaders are but heaven- or devil-sent wizards who have only to
wave their magic wands to sweep everything before them. He
fails to read their own words in history, or the most striking
comments of their greatest biographers. He has not understood
the significance of the Iliad to Alexander the Great, who, it is said,
passed a part of every day in reading from this great poem. He
has not realized the privation and study that featured Hannibal's
life from his earliest youth, in the preparation for his superb
attempt against the power of Rome. Strangest of all, he has not
grasped the one factor that made Napoleon supreme among the
commanders of the world. Beginning in his boyhood, he studied
diligently and cheerfully the lives and campaigns of all of the
great leaders up to his time—studied them, and dreamed over
them, and compared them, and probably he pictured from them the
greater success that would have fallen to him had he been the
commander.
However, it might not be so strange that the average person
has failed to note the part biography has played in the lives of
all great leaders, since few men make more than a careless or


  p. 2051 (#1003)                      

1925]
2051
The Three Craftsmen
passing stab at history. Yet, we can hardly realize that it would
be possible for anyone to fail to grasp it from the exact words of
the men themselves. Read the words of John Paul Jones set
down at the first of this chapter; read the biography of Porter,
or muse over these words from Mahan: “The average man
is not a coward; but neither is he endowed by nature with the rare
faculty of seizing intuitively the proper course at the critical
moment. He gains it, some more, some less, by experience or
reflection." Having finished these, turn to the works of a hundred
other men and you will find them, in their different manners, ex-
pressing this unvarying sentiment. Is it not, then, doubly odd
that so few have caught the vision of the effect that the study of
the lives and actions of others has upon their own success? If
one wants to learn of mathematics, he seeks knowledge in books
that represent the life works of men from Aristotle up to the
latest nineteen-twenty-five prodigy. Yet, when he seeks knowl-
edge of life, or character, of the will, he calmly disregards the
hard-earned lessons of the millions who have lived in the ages
before, and, in his peaceful ignorance, starts again at the very be-
ginning. Would it not be better to learn from those who have
found the pinnacle of success in the profession he has chosen, to
read their biographies, to learn their principles, and to select the
best for his own purposes ? For example, the first principle of war-
fare is that in the offensive lies victory--it appears in the works of
every historian, it stands out in the life of every great warrior;
yet how many leaders have sunk into oblivion because of their
failure to recognize this fact. Another, that is almost as obvious,
is that a new weapon in skillful hands practically assures victory.
The Carthaginians were among the greatest seafarers of the
world; their fleets controlled the Mediterranean, and the few
Roman galleys lay hidden in the coves of the Adriatic. Then, in
the space of a few short months, the Romans built fleets and swept
the Carthaginians from the seas. Because they were better sail-
ors? No. Because they resorted to the utterly foolish and un-
heard of step of loading their galleys with infantry, hinging on
the side a great flat gangway with a spike in the raised end, and
dropping the gangway when closed with the enemy, making it
impossible for him to escape, and placing his vessel at the mercy
of the Roman legions. A war and a country lost over such a
little matter! And it was the lubberly idea of having the rigging


  p. 2052 (#1004)                      

2052 U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings [Nov.
filled with sharpshooters that enabled John Paul Jones to clear the
upper decks of the superior Serapis, and to sail his shattered
hulk alongside to victory and fame.
Yet another principle is preparation—but it is not necessary
to continue down the short list, a list that is just as effective and
unchanged today as it was a hundred and a thousand years ago.
Strategy does not change; the fundamental principles of surprise,
initiative, and concentration remain the same; and the leaders do
not change, they are still the ones who plot and plan and study
while their brothers are brawling—nothing changes except the
clothing, the tactics, the external methods of carrying on war. It
was the realization of this that led Napoleon, a century and a
half ago, to devote the greater part of his life to study and prep-
aration. Well was he served, too, and greatly moulded by his
control of the second craftsman; could we not hope for as much if
we bent him as rigidly to our bidding ? The means are not simple,
which is the reason for but one Napoleon, but they are clear:
unceasing study and reading of biography and history; long hours
spent in poring over the strategy and tactics of campaigns; longer
ones in reflecting over these, separating the seed from the chaff,
carefully analyzing every problem of warfare; and the careful
formation of plans with the constant and repeated thinking out to
their very essence of the problems of the past, so that the principles
of strategy become truly a part of the mind-these, and these
alone, bring the all encompassing intellect that sees to the heart
of every situation, the mind that can foretell the greatest number
of combinations, the brain that is ever a jump ahead of the op-
ponent.
Beyond all of this, in studying the biographies of great leaders,
one absorbs the spirit that inspired them. Reading fashions
thoughts, thoughts form ideas, ideas spring into actions, and ac-
tions shape our lives. It would, then, be well for a young naval
officer carefully to study all of the lives of successful commanders,
to choose the one which fits best of all with his ideals and char-
acteristics, and from that moment to make his life a study of this
one man. He could not hope that living in an atmosphere of Lee
or Washington alone would raise him to the sphere in which they
circled, but he could expect to gain from it the fire to light the
torch of his own life, and, once lighted, who can tell the intensity
with which it would light the pathway of his future?


  p. 2053 (#1005)                      

1925]
The Three Craftsmen
2053
If the study of examples of history and biography has served as
a beacon in the life of every great man; if the same instruction is
all-important in the moulding of our leaders today, and if our
future is to be shaped by the men we are building now, should
not the same study occupy an important place in the training here
at the Naval Academy, where the sole purpose is the moulding of
men who will be capable of honorably and fitly representing the
flag of the United States upon any of the seven seas? To be
true, the curriculum is crowded and the English course is already
strained to breaking in the short space allotted to its work; but
where the will is strong enough, there is always a means—two
of which we might suggest herewith. The first of these is based
upon the ability of the Trident or The Naval Institute to secure
funds for an annual prize of a set of biographies (to be selected,
within certain limits, by the winner) to be given to the midship-
man of the second or third class who submits the best essay on the
life of some American naval or military commander. Or, better,
and this would reach the whole and not the few, to require once
each year from every man in the first, second, and third classes an
essay similar to the above of at least 1,000 words in length. The
results would be manifold. The essay itself would be short enough
to take only a small amount of any man's spare time, but the re-
search work he would be required to carry out would be a be-
ginning. After the second or third essay, he would begin to realize
the importance of that particular type of study, and if but a single
man in an entire class were to accept biography at its greatest
worth, would not the Navy and the country profit inestimably
thereby?
Reflection and study! the component parts of the second crafts-
man, they not only teach and train the mind, but they also build
about us an environment colored by the life of the man we study.
And it is in this last clause that we find the link between the second
and the third workmen-a link but not a sameness, for their tasks
are widely separated. Indeed, Environment, the third craftsman,
fills an entirely different niche in his services to mankind.
With the first breath of life, he begins his work, shaping and
forming the character within. Until the fourteenth or fifteenth
year, however, a person is hardly more than a cast of plaster in the
hands of a sculptor, easily impressed, but soft and plastic, and
easily changed. In the next period, until he has reached the early
.


  p. 2054 (#1006)                      

2054
(Vor.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
twenties, changes begin to become permanent, the cast commences
to harden. Afterwards, the form is finished and a change is no
more the deft touch of the sculptor's finger, but a long chipping
process with a chisel and a hammer.
It is in this middle and most important period that a boy is re-
ceived into the Naval Academy. Is the finished form at gradua-
tion as nearly perfect as can be made ?
Again we ask, is it? Certainly it makes all of us happy to be-
lieve that the Naval Academy produces a type of men as a whole
more highly trained and more uniform in character than any other
great school in the world. Let it ever be so! But, are we not like
the swift runner who looks over his shoulder at the other con-
testants close behind, and merely runs to win by a narrow margin
when he might have swung the world to its feet in a wild cheer of
praise? Our training is built in ways unknown to most colleges,
but we leave untouched, or half touched, the qualities that give to
them their greatness. The continued supremacy of Yale, and
Oxford, and Cambridge, and similar colleges in civilian training
lies not so much in their superior brand of teachers—for in the
closer contact of smaller colleges better teachers are often found-
but it does lie in the traditions that are a part of the school itself, a
part of its life, a part of its walls, a part of every man who grad-
uates. The memory of great athletes: of an uphill game when the
unquenchable courage of one man led a defeated team to victory;
of great crews and superhuman endurance, and of men, who had
run as never man had run before, spurting when it seemed the
heart must burst! The traditions of great students and of men who
have gone out to bring fame to the Alma Mater which fostered
them! One can feel these things in the ivy-covered dormitories,
in the classroom, in the chapel, in the spirit that pervades the cam-
pus—and, to a certain extent, so is it here, but so little developed !
Developed 'most, probably, in football :—It is a dark autumn
morning, a few dim lights glow in the background, the trees loom
as but lacy shadows, there is a shouted word, and long dark
lines of hushed men swing as darker shadows in the night. Now
a shrill voice breaks into the stillness, "Left hand—Salute!" and
a hundred shadowy arms sweep up in humble reverence to the
grotesque Indian chief silhouetted by their side. .... The band
strikes up a note and 2,000 heads are bared as the swing of
Anchor's Aweigh surges out defiance to the enemy hurled back


  p. 2055 (#1007)                      

1925]
:
The Three Craftsmen
2055
at the one-yard line. . ... The game is won, the mule buried,
and a multitude of bodies crush and laugh about the Japanese
bell, in grim determination to strike their one note of victory from
its too long silent throat.
Football, the sport of the kings! it means much to the morale
of the Academy. More, though we hesitate in saying it, than
the finely chiseled Tripoli monument that is little more than a
name to most midshipmen; more than the quiet dignity of the
Herndon monument, of which even the best informed of us can
speak but vaguely; and even more than the tomb of the Father of
our Navy, who is best known to the average midshipman as the
hero in the one-act play, Jones is Dead!
These customs, with a very few more in our daily life, and these
monuments, with several more, we have; but with them alone there
is something lacking, something missing from the definite touch.
The atmosphere in which we live does not breathe of the great
heroes of our Navy, of Porter, of Farragut, of Dewey—or even
of the ones of more recent times, such as Kalk, and Drexler, and
Selfridge. The grounds, the walks, the buildings, and even the
roads are named after these men, but what has been done in the
mess hall, in the corridors of Bancroft Hall, in the classroom?
The place in which to touch a man's life is within the walls, within
the routine that surrounds him every day. The most inspiring
object at the Naval Academy is Perry's banner inscribed with the
dying words of Lawrence, “Don't Give Up The Ship!” which
hangs high up on the overhead in Memorial Hall. One thought-
ful moment before it is worth more than the most fiery dissertation
on patriotism ever delivered; yet think of the added influence
similar banners or flags of our other great commanders would
have if placed in each battalion where they would be seen every
day. One of the best parts of the system here is the naming of the
grounds and the buildings after Farragut and Mahan and the
other great men of our Navy; yet if we had the choice of naming
them after some little-known celestial bodies and using their
previous names to designate the different companies, the change
would be made today.
You do not think the change would have much value? Go, then,
to the Naval College of the world's oldest naval nation and feel
for yourself the inspiration that comes from living and eating and
talking with a group of boys who work and play and sleep as


  p. 2056 (#1008)                      


DONT GIVE UP
THESHIP
White Studio
By Courtesy of the 1926 Lucky Bag
Door of MEMORIAL HALL SHOWING PERRY's Motto FLAG
"Don't Give UP THE SHIP"


  p. 2057 (#1009)                      

1925]
2057
The Three Craftsmen
Rodneys or Drakes or Grenvilles for four years of their lives.
Then say if you do not think our companies should likewise be
named after Jones, Porter, Hull, Lawrence, Maury, Mahan, Far-
ragut, and Dewey-eight of the greatest men any navy has pro-
duced. Could not their anniversaries be celebrated by printed
notices to the regiment, or by special smokers with the commandant
and the superintendent present? Would it be too much of a sacri-
fice to give up a little of the mathematical Company One and
Company Two and a little of the official time, in order that
stronger characters may be built? “Tommyrot ! an idle dreamer
—we want practical men,” someone says. And again we ask,
is it the purpose of this Academy to form men of the character
of Jones and Porter, men who may likewise lead the Navy in
giant deeds ? or is it to make them in the main only navigators and
engineers and shipwrights?
But this is only one of the many things we have left undone,
but one of the many leads we have left untouched. One that has
received as little attention is that deep thrill that comes at rare
moments to the regiment as a whole: The last rays of the setting
sun are glancing off the tawny dome of the Chapel ; the shadows
are already forming deep caverns in “Lover's Lane”; the long
lines of the battalions drawn up in the soft stillness for evening
formation have swept into marching columns, and then a cool,
sweet bugle note floods the yard. The dusky swinging lines stiffen
and turn as a single man toward that symbol in the sky. Erect and
proud they stand, while into the eye of even the most thoughtless
there creeps a starry vision that seems to speak of the spirit of
honor, and of courage, and of loyalty hovering around that stream-
ing flash of color as it flutters to the earth. Smoke and flame and
sullen waters, and a mast and flag slowly disappearing beneath,
but a flag unsullied and an honor unstained. .... Colors end, and
the dark lines resume their marching, sobered and thoughtful,
each man feeling a bit bigger, a bit closer to the ideal of the flag.
How many times a year does this occur; possibly ten or twelve,
if the weather is agreeable. Have we forgotten the value of the
flag in forming an ideal ? Would it not be wise to amend the regu-
lations so that colors could be at 6:45 at the Naval Academy
during the months of outside formation? The change would be
small, but its influence would be immeasurable upon the man who


  p. 2058 (#1010)                      

2058
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
[Nov.
will have lived this same moment for three or four months of
every year of his stay at the Academy.
We honor our heroes by removing our hats upon entering
Memorial Hall—would it not be a similar fine custom to rechristen
“Smoke Hall” the Bonhomme Richard; to enshrine her flag in
the battle with the Serapis above the reading table, and to salute
the flag upon entering or leaving, as is done on boarding or leaving
any ship.
In the dark vault of the Chapel, above the tomb of this ship's
heroic captain, hangs his sword, polished as brightly as in the days
when he grasped its hilt. It would be far wiser to remove it
from its oblivion and to encase it outside the main office under the
words of his immortal letter to Congress!
During the past few weeks, while entering Maury Hall, many
a midshipman has risked the report sheet by falling out of ranks
to read a white faced inscription on an old weather-beaten boat-
the gig of the Saginaw, whose every splinter bears a tale of
unending heroism and devotion to duty. Is it not made to sit on
a rough hewn pedestal in the center of Memorial Hall, along with
its inspiring story of suffering and courage ?—and that, some-
thing more than a nicely carved tablet filled with a few dates and
numbers and half told facts.
Besides this one object, there are buried in the museum of
Maury Hall hundreds—and maybe thousands, for we have had
only one swift, wistful inspection far back in plebe summer-of
relics and treasured memories. How little value these now have in
their effect upon the environment of the Academy! yet how strong
might be their influence if but a few were placed in glass cases
on the walls in the different corridors of Bancroft Hall.
And now we come to something that will mean more than all
of these other things: the placing in the corridors and around the
walls of the mess hall of tablets and panels to our naval heroes. If,
for instance, we were in the Porter company, on one part of the
deck we could find an etching of the Essex with an account of
her many adventures during her long cruise in the South Pacific.
Farther along we might see an extract from Porter's own memoirs
of the cruise, inscribed next to his portrait, and on yet another
spot, an engraving of the Essex's last fight, which is itself but
another chapter in the history of naval courage and determination.


  p. 2059 (#1011)                      

1925]
The Three Craftsmen
2059
The value of traditions thus indoctrinated into the average mid-
shipman would be well nigh priceless, but we have failed to
mention the most noble memorials which should be erected—the
memorials to those graduates of recent years who have already
given their lives as a sacrifice upon the altar of duty and honor
and loyalty. If you were a plebe, or even a rolling first classman,
would you not thrill to find above your door, engraved in lasting
bronze, these words :
This was the room occupied his last year by Henry Clay Drexler.
Hardly five months from the Naval Academy, he upheld the highest tradi-
tions of the naval service and gave his life, not alone in the performance
of his duty, but in the pursuit of that higher dream of honor, of loyalty,
and of service.
On October 20, 1924, the new scout cruiser, Trenton, stood out for the
Southern Drill Grounds to her initial target practice which was to prove the
quality of her armament. Powder was just being drawn up, when suddenly
there was a rush of black smoke, a bursting flame, and a deafening roar
as one of the turrets stood shattered in its base. Drexler was not in the
turret, but engaged in work near by. Recovering from the shock of the
explosion, he hesitated not a moment, but rushed of his own accord into
the inferno. He returned with the body of a man. Again he entered, and
again did he return with a body. A third time he entered and returned.
But that was not enough! Impelled by some inner spirit he started for
the fourth time, but, overcome by the gas and flames, he fell dead at the
entrance. He saved the lives of three men, he performed his duty as he
saw it—a greater love and a greater death than this hath no man.
Or one to Lieutenant Selfridge who performed heroically in the
same accident but escaped with his life. Or another to Lieutenant
Kalk who left a raft from the torpedoed Jacob Jones that a sea-
man might have his place-exchanging seats with life and death
that another might live. Or one to Commander King who slashed
a life belt from his body that it might float a stunned bluejacket,
and then stood on the bridge of his trawler as the waters of the
North Sea closed over her—and him. Somehow we feel that with
a name such as one of these above our door we could sit down to
a lesson in navigation or ordnance with a greater purpose, a
stronger determination, and a deeper concentration, in order that
we, too, might prepare ourselves for a service as great.
These are but a few of the many things that could be done
to place an atmosphere of example, and of duty, and of loyalty
around the life of every man. Tablets in the Armory, in the
Chapel, in the yard, in Memorial Hall—all these are wonderful,


  p. 2060 (#1012)                      

2060
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
they help to complete the whole-possibly even so much as one
tenth or one twelfth of a midshipman's time is spent in more or
less remote contact with these. But the place to build a man, the
place to reach his soul, is where he eats and sleeps and laughs and
studies; and where else can that be but in the corridors and rooms
of Bancroft Hall? Walls are more than glazed surfaces to keep
the wind and the neighbors, and the watch officers from one's
presence. They are the boundaries of our lives—let them be not
bound too narrowly. The Naval Academy has a great mission,
greater than any college in the country, greater even than the
Military Academy at West Point. On the Navy, on its men, and
on its officers will depend the safety of this country that is iso-
lated from the rest of the world by two vast but not impassable
bodies of water. The Naval Academy realizes that the naval
officer could not be this bulwark if his whole knowledge con-
sisted of seamanship, and navigation, and ordnance, and engi-
neering; so each year has seen her branching out into broader
and more fertile fields—but where could one be found that would
be more productive than the drawing closer of the lines of tradi-
tion that bind the past with the present, any that would offer
greater gains from a little thought and less effort ? Forever hold
a bird imprisoned and it will never learn to fly, but open the cage
and some day you will marvel to see this bird, that has neither
sung nor flown, lifting a vanishing melody into the heavens.
Bound a man by gray walls, and nothing else, and you bind him
in a cage—but bound him with gray walls outside and walls of
honor and of courage and loyalty within and you have freed a
great spirit that will soar unto untold limits. Our training is a
hard one, may it ever be such, for only hardy souls bend true on
the rough path—but never take from it the traditions and mem-
ories of its great heroes, for from these does the spirit find its
strength. And the spirit is the man! Break and crumple and
wound the body if you will, but put within that human fire that is
but a little lower than the angels, and the man will rise to heights
that are but a little under heaven itself.
*
*
*
*
Reflection and Environment! The two great brothers of the
first craftsman, Heredity. Theirs is the power to mould and to
fashion the life of man into shapes so nearly perfect that the


  p. 2061 (#1013)                      

1925)
The Three Craftsmen
2061
world has not yet gazed upon their master works. But they do
not work alone, neither do they build without guidance; they are
the servants and man is the master. Are their powers being di-
rected in the true course in your own life? Are their abilities
being used to the greatest extent in the building of character and
men in our Naval Academy?


  p. 2062 (#1014)                      

THE ATTEMPTED MUTINY ON THE
U. S. BRIG “SOMERS”
By REAR ADMIRAL LIVINGSTON HUNT, (SC), U. S. N. RETIRED
I ET us go back in our minds to the Navy of eighty-three
L years ago, and try to use our imaginations clearly and ac-
curately so as to feel that we are in the naval atmosphere of
the time. To picture the little United States brig Somers plow-
ing the moonlit sea of the mid-Atlantic on the night of Novem-
ber 25, 1842, with a northeast trade behind her, in latitude north
13° and longitude west 41°, requires little mental effort, but to
comprehend the character and temperament of the officers and men
on board of her, to judge their actions with understanding and,
if necessary, with leniency, is a very difficult task to us of this day,
who have grown so different from our forefathers. The naval
officer of that time was in all respects a worthy type, but we of
today call the type limited and crude. We think him brave, but
ignorant. Certainly he was a less complicated and cultivated
official than his successor of today, but he could not help this as
he was the product of his times. In the year 1842, when the
Somers was on her trip from Cape Palmas in Liberia to St.
Thomas in the West Indies, the institutions of duelling and
slavery, and of flogging in the Navy were all extant in our country.
Piracy, which had even had men of education in its numbers,
had flourished like a green bay tree all over the West Indian
waters up to the year 1825, and still flourished on other oceans.
Aristocracy lingered on shore, and tyranny and roughness of
manners toward subordinates reigned aboard ship. In the eigh-
teen-forties and thereabouts there was a difference of clay be-
tween the enlisted man and the officer which has disappeared.
Even the unconsidered midshipman who was treated without
respect by his superiors was, though only a boy, regarded as a
divine authority by the grizzled seamen under him; and the reader
of this story should always keep in mind that mutiny, or mutinous
conduct (the former in foreign navies and the latter in our own),
was more common or more recent in those days than in 1925.


  p. 2063 (#1015)                      

1925]
2063
Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig “Somers"
On board the Somers there were at this time seven midshipmen
ranging in ages from sixteen to twenty years, and it was one of
these lads who was to play the most important part in the events
about to take place on the little brig. Her captain was Commander
Alexander Slidell Mackenzie, of New York, an officer then thirty-
nine years old, with a record of unusual ability in his profession
and also out of it, for he was a successful and agreeable writer.
Washington Irving and English critics had praised him for his
books describing his travels in England and in Spain. His
biographies of John Paul Jones and Oliver Hazard Perry had ap-
peared the year before, and are creditable, well-written books.
He was a man of attractive presence, rather tall, with thin and
slightly auburn hair, of whom Richard Henry Dana, of Boston,
wrote a few months later: "He is quiet and unassuming. He is
unusually interesting and creates a feeling of personal affection
toward him in those whom he meets.” Commander Mackenzie
had been christened Alexander Slidell, his father being John
Slidell, Sr., an esteemed merchant and manufacturer of New
York, prominent in society and politics, and his brother the noted
John Slidell, Jr., afterward U. S. Senator from Louisiana, who
was appointed a Confederate commissioner to France and England
and was captured from the English vessel Trent by Captain Wilkes
of our Navy in 1861. Commander Mackenzie's mother was a
Miss Mackenzie, and about five years before our story opens, he
had, at the request of his mother's brother, added her family name
to his own of Slidell. With his proved reputation for courage
and efficiency, no officer was more highly esteemed, or had been
more successful in winning life's prizes up to the present time.
Such was he to the world; what he was to himself, what he was
to his Maker, is less easily discovered, but perhaps this story
will help us to know him better.
The brig Somers sailed from New York for the west coast of
Africa on September 13, 1842, with a crew of 120, consisting of
thirteen officers, about eighty apprentice boys, and the rest petty
officers, cooks and stewards, about five of them being only twenty
years of age. She was on a practice cruise with orders to pick up
Madeira, Teneriffe, and Porto Praia on the way to Liberia, then
to return to New York via St. Thomas. In pursuance of these
orders she left Cape Palmas in Liberia on November 11 and
was proceeding westward on her uneventful, trade-wind journey,


  p. 2064 (#1016)                      

2064
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
with nothing whatever to call the attention of history to her until
November 25. Her wardroom officers were four in number,
First Lieutenant Guert Gansevoort, P. A. Surgeon Leecock,
Purser Heiskill, and Acting Master M. C. Perry, all of them
crowded into a wardroom of which the "country" was only ten
feet wide by six feet long. In the steerage, which was forward
of the wardroom and which was fitted to accommodate only five
people, being fourteen feet wide by four feet long, were the seven
midshipmen already mentioned : namely, Messrs. Rodgers, Thomp-
son, Hayes, Deslondes, Tillotson, Spencer, and Captain's Clerk O.
H. Perry, who did midshipman's duty. The captain's cabin,
abaft the wardroom, was only eight feet wide at the broad end,
and four at the narrow, with a length of eight feet. All of these
quarters were on the berth deck, which had a height of four feet
ten inches between decks; and the crew occupied all of the amid-
ships and forward part of this deck. The only entrance to the
wardroom was through the steerage by a door in its after bulkhead.
The brig herself was one hundred feet long between perpendi-
culars, with an extreme width of twenty-five feet, seven inches,
and her tonnage capacity was 266 tons. She carried ten car-
ronades on her spar deck, her only other deck, although she was
pierced for twelve guns.
On the evening of November 25, the brig being then 1,700 miles
distant from St. Thomas, about the middle of the second dog-
watch, Midshipman Philip Spencer walked forward on the spar
deck and addressed some remarks about the weather to Purser's
Steward J. W. Wales, who was standing near the bitts. Midship-
man Spencer, who was nineteen years old at the time of this story,
and who is described as "a tall, pale, delicate looking young man,”
was not a favorite with his messmates. He was a member of a
distinguished family; his grandfather was Ambrose Spencer,
LL.D. who had been Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of New
York, and his father was John Canfield Spencer, the editor and
commentator of de Tocqueville's Democracy, and at the time of the
cruise of the Somers, Secretary of War in the Cabinet of Presi-
dent John Tyler. But Spencer's messmates, among whom we
recognize some typical naval names, did not approve of him on ac-
count of his general deportment among the ship's company before
the mast. He was a constant offender in a matter in which a self-
respecting officer may never offend; he was always trying to


  p. 2065 (#1017)                      

1925]
2065
Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig “Somers"
bridge the unbridgeable distance in rank between man and officer
-a distance which was first discovered to be necessary about the
time when navies and armies first came into existence.
After a few minute's conversation with the purser's steward,
young Spencer invited him to come amidships and get up on top
the "booms” with him—the “booms” being the place where the
brig's launch, cutters and spare booms were stowed—remarking
that he had something very important to say to him. It was against
the rules of the ship to use this place as a loafing spot, but that
made little difference to Spencer; and besides, it was after dark,
so that discovery was improbable. In a very few minutes he made
known to the astounded Wales that he had a plan of mutiny in his
head, well thought out and arranged in all of its minute details.
He began by solemnly asking Wales if he was afraid of death, and
if he would dare to kill a man if necessary. To one reading
Wales' testimony as given later before the court-martial, it is
evident that Wales was thoroughly frightened, not only by the
question but by the fact that he was alone with Spencer. I give
the exact words of Wales for what followed :
I was very much surprised at these remarks (i.e., whether he (Wales)
feared death, and so forth), and looked up to see if he was in earnest. I
found that he was serious and very much in earnest in what he said. I re-
plied that I was not particularly anxious to die quite yet, that I had no
cause to fear a dead person, and that did a man sufficiently abuse or insult
me, I thought I could muster sufficient courage to kill him if necessary.
Mr. Spencer replied, “I don't doubt your courage at all; I know it. But,”
said he, "can you keep a secret and will you keep one?" "If so,” he added,
"take the oath.” He then dictated an oath, of which I cannot recollect the
whole, but the purport of it was that I should never make known to any
person the conversation which was about to take place between us. I took
the oath as directed by Mr. Spencer. The oath was merely administered
by word of mouth, no Bible being used. He then went on to state that he
was leagued with about twenty of the brig's company to take her, murder
all of her officers and commence pirating. The plan and stations of the
men, he said, he had all arranged in secret writing done up in his neck-
handkerchief. He requested me to feel of his neck-handkerchief. I did so
and there was a rumpling which showed that there was a paper in the back
part of it. He went on to state to me the plan he should pursue. Some of
his men would get into a fight on the forecastle. He (Spencer) was to
bring them up to the mast and call Mr. Rodgers, the officer of the deck, to
pretend to settle the difficulty. As soon as Mr. Rodgers had got to the
gangway they were immediately to seize him and throw him overboard.
They would then have the vessel in their possession. The keys of the arms


  p. 2066 (#1018)                      

2066
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
chest he could lay his hands on at any moment. The arms chest was to be
opened and the arms distributed to his men. He was then to station his men
at the hatches to prevent any one from coming up on deck, and he should
proceed to the cabin and murder the commander with the least noise
possible. He should then proceed with some of his men to the wardroom, and
murder the wardroom and steerage officers.
Further features of the scheme included throwing overboard
such members of the crew as would not suit Spencer's purposes,
and the development of the brig and her crew into a fully equipped
pirate ship. She was to proceed to the Isle of Pines and there take
on board one who was familiar with the trade of piracy and who
wanted to join them. They would then cruise the seas for prizes,
would capture and scuttle ships, take money, commit murder,
capture women and enslave them, and so forth.
For over half an hour Spencer poured into the frightened ears
of the dissembling Wales one item after another of his mutinous
scheme. He never stopped talking in this time, and was so eager
and excited as to give Wales no chance to reply. He then inter-
rupted himself by calling out to a seaman named Elisha Small to
come to the booms. To this man, who came up, he made a remark
in Spanish. Small understood Spanish, although Wales did not,
and Small's face showed surprise at what Spencer had said to him.
Spencer then said to Small in English, “Oh, you need not be under
any apprehension of fear on his (Wales') account, as I have
sounded him pretty well, and find he is one of us.” Small showed
pleasure at hearing this and remarked that he was glad of it.
Small was here called away on duty, and Wales continues with his
testimony:
Small then left. Spencer made overtures to me, saying that if I would
join them he would give me the post of third officer in command. He then
went on to state that the commander had a large amount of money on board.
This, he said, with what the purser had, would make a pretty little sum
to commence with. He then asked me what I thought of the project. I
thought it prudent to dissemble as much as possible in order to gain further
information and told him that I was favorably disposed toward it. My
duty then called me away. Spencer remarked that we would have another
interview on the morrow, when he would show me the plan he had drawn
up. He followed me to the gangway saying that if I lisped a syllable
of what he had communicated to me I should be murdered; that if he did
not do it himself those connected with him would ; that go where I might.
my life would not be worth a straw. I said, “No, I would not make any
mention of it.”


  p. 2067 (#1019)                      

1925] Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig “Somers” 2067
It was almost two hours before Wales could shake off Spencer
and escape from the ordeal of pretending to share in his murder-
ous ideas. That the young officer was terribly in earnest and
meant all that he said there was not a shadow of doubt in Wales'
mind. To us of this day, listening for the first time, in 1925, to
Midshipman Spencer's scoundrelly and bloody schemes as laid be-
fore Wales, it is uncertain whether to view them as grotesque non-
sense, or to see in them real dangers to the security and the lives
of the people on board the Somers. Should one laugh at them
or be transfixed with horror? We recall again the fact that piracy
was until about that time a very common trade. When Commo-
dore C. G. Ridgely was ordered in 1826 to command the West
India squadron his orders included directions to "suppress piracy”
in those waters. Young Spencer had told Wales that he was
leagued with about twenty of the Somers' crew to take possession
of the brig and turn her into a pirate. Could this be true? Why
not? Although mutinies were almost unknown in our Navy, yet
there had once been one on board the Essex under Porter at the
Marquesas Islands in 1813. Was it wholly impossible for a mutiny
to occur, especially with an officer to lead the disaffected ? To
Wales' frightened mind anything seemed possible; and he was con-
vinced of the necessity of immediate action on his part without
paying any attention to his oath of secrecy to Spencer. He came
up on the quarter-deck after Spencer had gone below, and hovered
about the entrance to the cabin with the intention of carrying the
news directly in to Commander Mackenzie, but he perceived that
his movements were watched by Small and he dared not carry out
his design. He then went below with the idea of reporting the mat-
ter to the first lieutenant, Mr. Gansevoort, in the wardroom. To
do so he would have had to pass through the steerage to the door
in the after bulkhead which was the only entrance into the ward-
room, but Midshipman Spencer was already in his hammock for
the night, and his hammock was slung close to this door. Spencer
noticed Wales coming into the steerage, and raising up his head
wanted to know “Why in the devil he was cruising about that
place at that time of night, and why he had not turned in.” Wales
made no reply but pretended to be busy about something, and got
out of the steerage onto the berth deck where he remained for an
hour, hoping that Spencer would go to sleep so that he could get
into the wardroom to speak with the first lieutenant. But lights


  p. 2068 (#1020)                      

2008
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
were put out, and there was nothing to be done until next morning,
so Wales had to turn in and to lie awake the whole of the rest of
the night. In the morning he got into the wardroom on the first
opportunity and made the matter known to Purser Heiskill; he
then went on deck and told Mr. Gansevoort that the purser
wished to speak with him immediately. Wales says in his testi-
mony that while he was speaking to the first lieutenant he was
being watched by Small and by a boatswain's mate named Crom-
well, and two men named Wilson and McKinley. He assumed
that all of these men were among the intending mutineers, aná
that they observed that he was playing them false. Mr. Ganse-
voort went below to the wardroom about ten o'clock in the morn-
ing where he received from Purser Heiskill the momentous news
that there was a mutiny on foot on board the U. S. brig Somers.
He listened to enough of this information to feel thoroughly
alarmed and did not wait to hear all of the details, but hurried to
the captain's cabin, where he laid the matter before Commander
Mackenzie. I give the exact words of the first lieutenant in de-
scribing this interview: “I immediately entered the cabin and men-
tioned the circumstances. He (Commander Mackenzie) received
it with great coolness; said that the vessel was in good discipline
and expressed his doubts as to the truth of the report. I asked
him if I should see Mr. Wales myself and get the information
from him. He said no, he did not wish me to do or to say any-
thing about it. He assigned no reason at this time for this, but
ordered me to keep a strict lookout upon Mr. Spencer and the crew
generally.” On this, Mr. Gansevoort left the cabin.
The plot, or whatever it was, was now the property of the direct-
ing mind of the ship, and from this mind a new and strange con-
sciousness, as of danger, was soon to spread itself through the
ship's company of the Somers. A disorder had come into the
ship's organism, and it had to work itself out, either for good
or bad. Mr. Gansevoort, in obedience to orders, began watching
Mr. Spencer, and watching everyone in the crew. About two
o'clock in the afternoon, observing that Spencer was not on deck,
but had gone into the foretop, he went up there himself to see
what he was about. He found him sitting on the lee side of the
top, with his chin resting on his breast and in such deep thought
that he did not see Gansevoort until the latter had got into the
top and was standing erect. Spencer then got up in confusion and


  p. 2069 (#1021)                      

1925] Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig “Somers” 2069
asked Gansevoort some questions about the rigging, which the
latter answered and came down puzzled by the young man's
demeanor and strongly inclined to see something suspicious in it.
A little later an apprentice named Green went into the top to join
Spencer, and to prick a design in India ink on his arm. Mr.
Gansevoort ordered Green to come down, which he did, but
Spencer remained on the top until later, when he came down and
Gansevoort observed him sitting on the Jacob's ladder on the
starboard side forward. Now occurred an important incident in
this story. "I turned my eye toward him," says Gansevoort, "and
immediately caught his eye which he kept staring upon me for
more than a minute with the most infernal expression I have ever
seen upon a human face. It satisfied me at once of the man's
guilt."
Now Lieutenant Guert Gansevoort was not the type of man we
should expect to imagine dangers where they did not exist. He
was thirty years of age, had been at sea since the age of twelve
when he had entered the Navy as a midshipman, and his judgment
of a fellow seaman deserves consideration even if based, as this
one undoubtedly was, on intuition only. It was about four o'clock
in the afternoon of this day, November 26, that, in consequence of
this malignant glare from young Spencer, he mentally ranged
himself alongside Wales in the belief that the midshipman was
plotting to be a mutineer.
Meanwhile, what was Commander Mackenzie thinking about?
He had received with apparent ridicule the fearsome news that
there was treason on board his ship; it hardly seemed possible that
he would change his views. Yet that is exactly what happened.
To understand this we turn to his own account of it, as related in a
report to the Secretary of the Navy written three and a half
weeks later. From the manner of his narrative it is evident that
the large number of facts relating to Spencer which it contains
could not all have been learned by Commander Mackenzie on the
afternoon of November 26; but this does not invalidate his reasons
for acting toward Spencer as he did later in the day, since the
facts which he learned afterwards corroborated those which he
had learned before.
He remarks that although he at first felt that Mr. Spencer must
have been amusing himself with the purser's steward, he yet
decided that it was joking on an improper theme and should be


  p. 2070 (#1022)                      

2070
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
stopped. It was in case there might be a shadow of reality in
Spencer's project that he had ordered Mr. Gansevoort to watch
him. In the course of the afternoon Gansevoort had reported
that Spencer had been in the wardroom examining a chart of the
West Indies and making inquiries about the Isle of Pines, which
was the place where he had told Wales he was going to take the
Somers. He also learned that Spencer had been in secret and
nightly conferences with Boatswain's Mate Samuel Cromwell,
and Seaman Elisha Small; that he had given money to Small and
several of the crew, and had the habit of distributing tobacco
among the apprentices, contrary to orders; that he had corrupted
the wardroom steward and caused him to steal brandy from the
wardroom mess; that he had occasionally been drunk himself
when removed from observation; that he had given brandy to the
crew; that he had "the habit of amusing the crew by making music
with his jaw”; that he had once drawn a brig with a black pirate's
flag, and had repeatedly asserted that the Somers could be easily
taken; that he had been dismissed with disgrace from the Brazi-
lian squadron and compelled to resign for drunkenness and scan-
dalous conduct; and, finally, that he, while on the Somers, had little
intercourse with the officers and was very intimate with the crew.
As the day wore on, much thinking of these discreditable facts
gradually accomplished the feat of changing Commander Macken-
zie's ridicule of the morning into a mood so serious in the after-
noon that he took the resolution which we shall soon record.
Gansevoort, after the incident of the hateful gaze turned upon
him by Spencer, reported it to Commander Mackenzie, and gave
it as his opinion that Spencer ought to be confined. Mackenzie
replied that he did not wish to act hastily, and that by evening
quarters he would decide what it was best to do. Just before that
time arrived Commander Mackenzie himself asked Mr. Gansevoort
what he would do in the present situation of affairs, were he,
Gansevoort, the commanding officer of the Somers. "I told him,"
says Gansevoort, “that I would bring that young man aft and iron
him and keep him on the quarter-deck.” The minds of the two
men met in the same conclusion. In his report to the Secretary of
the Navy, Commander Mackenzie, after enumerating the instances
of bad conduct on Spencer's part already described, states :
These various recollections, added to what had been revealed to me, de-
termined me to make sure at once of his person, though I had meditated


  p. 2071 (#1023)                      

1925)
2071
Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig "Somers"
allowing Mr. Wales to have another interview with him that evening for
the purpose of ascertaining more of his plans, as had been agreed upon
between them. If he was really in earnest, enough was already known. At
evening quarters I ordered through my clerk, O. H. Perry, doing the duty
also of midshipman and aid, all of the officers to lay aft on the quarterdeck,
excepting the midshipmen stationed on the forecastle. The master was
ordered to take the wheel, and those of the crew stationed abaft sent to the
mainmast. I approached Mr. Spencer and said to him, “I learn, Mr. Spencer,
that you aspire to the command of the Somers?” With a deferential, but
unmoved and gently smiling expression, he replied, “Oh, no sir.” “Did you
not tell Mr. Wales, sir, that you had a project to kill the commander, the
officers and a considerable portion of the crew of this vessel and convert her
into a pirate?" "I may have told him so, sir, but it was in joke." "You
admit then that you told him?" "Yes, sir, but in joke.” “This, sir, is
joking on a forbidden subject; this joke may cost you your life. Be pleased
to remove your neck-handkerchief.” It was removed and opened, but
nothing was found in it. I asked him what he had done with the papers
containing an account of his project which he had told Mr. Wales was in
the back of his neck-handkerchief. “It is a paper containing my day's
work, and I have destroyed it.” “It is a singular place in which to keep
day's work." “It is a convenient one,” he replied with an air of deference
and blandness. I said to him, “You must have been aware that you could
only have compassed your designs by passing over my dead body, and after
that, the bodies of all of the officers; you had given yourself, sir, a great
deal to do; it will be necessary for me to confine you, sir." I turned to
Lieutenant Gansevoort and said, “Arrest Mr. Spencer, and put him in double
irons !” Mr. Gansevoort stepped forward and took his sword. He was
ordered to sit down on the stern post, double ironed, and, an additional
security, handcuffed. I directed Lieutenant Gansevoort to watch over his
security, to order him to be put to instant death if he was detected speaking
to or holding intelligence in any way with any of the crew. He was himself
made aware of the nature of these orders. I also directed Lieutenant Ganse-
voort to see that he had every comfort of which his safekeeping would admit.
The intended mutiny was now an established fact—made so by
the action of the commanding officer in openly securing the person
of the ringleader. The revelation was a thunderclap to everyone ex-
cept the intending mutineers, whose number we may now state,
was small. How changed the quiet career of the little brig of
twenty-four hours before, homeward bound and glad to be so,
and now with some evil spirit lurking in every breeze that
whispered along her deck! Midshipman Spencer was placed on
the port arms chest of the quarter-deck, close to the roundhouse,
and as the sun went down the officer of the deck, by order, was
armed with a cutlass and pistol. Just after the arrest, the locker
1 "Day's work,” the navigational computations for the day.


  p. 2072 (#1024)                      

2072
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings [Nov.
of Midshipman Spencer in the steerage was searched by Lieu-
tenant Gansevoort and Midshipman Henry Rodgers. Among his
possessions were found two papers which contained startling
proofs of his intention to start a mutiny. They consisted of a
list of about thirty names of men in the ship, classified under the
headings of "Certain," "Doubtful,” and “To be kept nolens
volens," with explanatory notes attached. In order to make his
program secure from discovery, he had written every name and
every word of it in the Greek character. The notes stated that
some of the “doubtful” men would be “induced to join," and
some others would have "to be forced.” The number of names
under the caption “Certain” was only four, including himself;
under "Doubtful” there were ten names. The distribution of
certain men at the wheel, arms chest, and other places on the
deck was also put down all in Greek. Midshipman Henry
Rodgers was the only officer able to read these Greek characters
and to transliterate them into English, which he did, and took
the results to Commander Mackenzie. Proof upon proof seemed
to be piling up that the ship was in danger; but even before the
discovery of the Greek papers the captain had given orders to
the watch officers to make frequent rounds of both decks that
night, in order to see that the crew were in their hammocks and
that there were no suspicious gatherings anywhere.
The following day was Sunday, November 27, inspection day,
and at ten o'clock in the morning all hands were assembled at
quarters, with Commander Mackenzie determined, as he tells us,
to observe minutely the person and bearing of Cromwell and of
Small. Boatswain's mate Samuel Cromwell was the tallest man
in the crew, wore a big beard and a large pair of whiskers; was
violent, profane, and able. He was cruel to the boys, and he swore
(under his breath) at the captain. He appears to have had a past
career of no gentle kind, having served on a slaver, and bore on
his scalp several scars that showed that he had been in bloody
fights. In appearance at least he might have been a suitable first
mate for the pirate ship which young Spencer was planning to
make of the Somers. How far he was involved in these schemes,
if at all involved, and what the subject of his private talks with
Spencer was, will never be known. His truculent appearance
seems to have assisted toward a belief in his collusion with the
young officer. On that morning carpenter's mate Dickerson, who


  p. 2073 (#1025)                      

1925)
2073
Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig "Somers"
was one of the loyal petty officers, had said to Mr. Gansevoort, in
speaking of Cromwell, “that big fellow forward is more dangerous
than the rest; he ought to be confined." This was the man whom
Commander Mackenzie observed closely while he stood at quar-
ters, erect and pale, with eye fixed and grasping resolutely his
battle-axe.
The result of the examination was that Commander Mackenzie
decided that he had a "determined and dangerous air." Elisha
Small presented a very different appearance from Cromwell; he
was a short, little man with a white, frightened face, shifting from
one foot to the other, passing his battle-axe from one hand to the
other, and avoiding the eye of his captain. Both men, though
for opposite reasons, impressed Commander Mackenzie as men
who were not to be trusted. After quarters, church was held, and
the crew was uncommonly devout and attentive to the service. A
general muster followed and Commander Mackenzie states that
he examined every countenance in the crew with the result that he
discovered none which disturbed him. This statement, of course,
must have intended to except Cromwell and Small. In the after-
noon, the wind having moderated, skysails and royal studding
sails were set, but the operation was hardly completed before the
main-royal mast was carried away. Occurring at this time, this ac-
cident immediately took on a sinister appearance both to Com-
mander Mackenzie and his first lieutenant, whose minds at once
rushed to the conclusion that it was intentional. Gansevoort
dashed to the deck from below and took charge of clearing the
wreck, fearing lest conspirators would take advantage of the con-
fusion to get possession of the ship. Later, when the main-top-
gallant mast was about to be swayed from the deck, he states
that he “heard an unusual noise—a rushing on deck and I saw a
body of men in each gangway rushing aft toward the quarter-
deck. I said to the Commander, ‘God, I believe they are coming.'
I had one of Colt's pistols, which I immediately drew and cocked;
the commander said his pistols were below. I jumped onto the
trunk and ran forward to meet them. As I was going along I
sang out to them not to come aft. I told them I would blow the
first man's brains out who should put his foot on the quarter-
deck. I held my pistol pointed at the tallest man I saw in the
starboard gangway, and I think Mr. Rodgers sang out to me that
he was sending the men aft to the mast rope. I then told them that


  p. 2074 (#1026)                      

2074
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
they must have no such unusual movements on board the vessel ;
what they did they must do in their usual manner; they knew the
state of the vessel and might get their brains blown out before they
were aware of it.”
The state of mind of Gansevoort seems to have seen unmistak-
able mutiny in the crew before him. Commander Mackenzie,
whether influenced by this or not, found cause for alarm that
afternoon in the fact that five or six men, including Cromwell,
Small, and a sailmaker's mate named Wilson, had collected about
the mainmast head and in the crosstrees, where some of them were
out of their stations. After consulting with Gansevoort, he made
up his mind to arrest Cromwell, first taking the precaution to order
all officers to be armed and stationed about the spar deck, ready
for action in case of attack. When Cromwell descended the
rigging he found facing him, with cocked pistol, the first lieu-
tenant who told him that the captain wished to see him, and took
him aft. Here Commander Mackenzie questioned him as to a
secret conversation he had held with Mr. Spencer, but Cromwell
replied, “It was not me, sir, it was Small.” He was then informed
that there were reasons for many suspicions about him; there-
fore, it was necessary to arrest and confine him in the same way as
Mr. Spencer, and to take him home for trial where, if found
innocent, he would be set free, and if found guilty, would be
punished. Cromwell replied, "Yes, sir, but I don't know anything
about this; I assure you, I don't know anything about it." He
was put in double irons and placed on the starboard arms chest
directly across the quarter-deck from Spencer.
As Cromwell had named Small as the person who had con-
ferred secretly with Spencer, Commander Mackenzie, after con-
sulting with Gansevoort, had Small called aft, and put him also
into double irons. He charged him with having listened to
Spencer's plot of mutiny, to which Small answered, “Yes, sir,"
and made no objection to being confined. He was told that he
also would be legally tried at home, and he was placed on the
starboard quarter-deck abaft the after gun. Purser's steward
Wales was armed and detailed to keep watch over the three
prisoners. “Increased vigilance,” says Commander Mackenzie,
"was now enjoined upon all the officers; henceforward, all were
perpetually armed; either myself or the first lieutenant was always
on deck, and generally both of us were."


  p. 2075 (#1027)                      

1925]
2075
Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig "Somers”
The following morning, Monday, November 28, the routine
of the ship's day included the punishment of two men for offenses
reported by the master-at-arms. One of them was Henry Wal-
tham, the wardroom steward, who had recently stolen brandy from
the wardroom mess and given it to Mr. Spencer. The whole ship's
company, officers and men, were called on deck by the boatswain's
cry of "All hands witness punishment,” and Waltham's hands
were tied, his shoulders stripped, and the lash laid on. After this
(what must seem to us) brutalizing ceremony, Commander
Mackenzie made a speech to the crew. He disclosed to them the
general nature of Spencer's plot, while not mentioning that he had
a list of the names of those implicated in it, and impressed upon
them that many of them had been marked for murder by Spencer.
He exhorted them to think of their homes and kindred and to
rejoice at the prospect of being with their families again in about
three weeks. Commander Mackenzie states in his report to the
Secretary of the Navy, that the effect of his speech upon the crew
was various: “it filled many with horror at the idea of what they
had escaped ; it inspired others with terror at the dangers awaiting
them from their connection with the conspiracy. The thoughts of
returning to that home and those friends from wom it had been
intended to have cut them off forever caused many of them to
weep. I now considered the crew tranquillized and the vessel safe.”
Nothing happened that Monday afternoon to destroy this
tranquillity which, it must be remembered, was founded on and
maintained by the conspicuous presence of twelve armed officers,
each with cutlass and pistol ready for instant use. In addition to
this guard against an uprising, Commander Mackenzie had di-
rected that the three prisoners should be turned with their faces
aft, as he had once or twice observed Mr. Spencer attempting by
signs to hold intelligence with the crew. Tuesday the twenty-
ninth came, and in the morning all hands were again called to
witness punishment, and another "catting” took place. Again
Commander Mackenzie thought it advisable to address the crew,
urging them to obey the laws of the ship and to keep down the
number of punishments, so that the record of the ship, when
sent in to the Secretary of the Navy, would make a creditable
showing. At this point of Commander Mackenzie's narrative we
are hardly prepared for his next remark. After mentioning this
speech to the crew, he says, “But the whole crew was far from


  p. 2076 (#1028)                      

2076
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings (Nov.
being tranquillized.” It was only twenty-four hours before that
he had told us that they were tranquillized. What had caused
this sudden change? Had his first belief been an error based on
hasty judgment ? Evidently so, for he goes on to tell the Secre-
tary of the Navy that the suspected mutineers "began once more
to collect in knots,” and that during the previous (Monday)
night "seditious words had been heard through the vessel, and an
insolent and menacing air assumed by many." He became pos-
sessed, from reports made by certain of the loyal men, with the
idea that the conspirators were planning to make a rush aft and to
rescue the three prisoners confined in irons on the quarter-deck.
It seemed to him that, so far from the three arrests having quelled
the spirit of mutiny, they had tended to increase it. Purser's
steward Wales reported that sailmaker's mate Wilson had acted as
if he intended to kill him with a handspike. After hearing this,
Commander Mackenzie remained continuously on the spar deck.
At midnight of Tuesday when the watch was called, two men,
landsman McKinley and apprentice Green, missed their muster
and gave lame excuses for doing so. At four o'clock on Wednes-
day afternoon the same slackness was again evinced by some other
men. In Commander Mackenzie's mind, the danger of a rescue of
the prisoners grew from hour to hour. For over forty-eight hours
all officers had now carried arms, and none of them had secured a
requisite amount of sleep. Each new symptom of disaffection
produced an angry reaction in their tired minds. As Commander
Mackenzie states: “Where was this thing to end? Each new
arrest of prisoners seemed to bring a fresh set of conspirators
forward to occupy the first place. With fine weather and bright
nights, there was already a disposition to make an attack and
rescue the prisoners. When bad weather should call off the at-
tention of the officers . . . . how great the probability of a rescue!
.... Hitherto, I had consulted the first lieutenant only, and had
been justified in everything I had done by finding his opinions
identical with my own. In so grave a case, however, I was
desirous of having the opinion of all of the officers, and was partic-
ularly anxious that no shadow of doubt should remain as to the
guilt of either of the prisoners, should their execution be deemed
necessary."
Their execution! Surely Commander Mackenzie was traveling
fast. Was there not a law which stated that any person in the


  p. 2077 (#1029)                      

1925)
2077
Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig “Somers"
Navy making or attempting to make any mutinous assembly, shall,
on conviction thereof by a court-martial, suffer death? Where
was the court-martial which alone could justify him in thus con-
sidering the necessity of an execution? How could he overlook
the law and rush to the thought of an execution ? His own story
will tell us how, and why. On the morning of Wednesday the
thirtieth, he addressed this letter to the four wardroom officers
and the three oldest midshipmen, omitting the four acting mid-
shipmen who were only boys.
U. S. Brig Somers,
November 30, 1842
GENTLEMEN:
The time has arrived when I am desirous of availing myself of your
council in the responsible position in which, as commander of this vessel,
I find myself placed. You are aware of the circumstances which have
resulted in the confinement of Midshipman Philip Spencer, Boatswain's
Mate Samuel Cromwell, and Seaman E. Small, as prisoners, and I pur-
posely abstain from entering into any details of them, necessarily ignorant
of the exact extent of disaffection among a crew which has so long and
so systematically and assiduously been tampered with by an officer. Know-
ing that suspicions of the gravest nature attach to persons still at large,
and whom the difficulty of taking care of the prisoners we already have,
makes me more reluctant than I should otherwise be to apprehend, I have
determined to address myself to you, and to ask your united council as to
the best course to be now pursued, and I call upon you to take into deliberate
and dispassionate consideration the present condition of the vessel, and the
contingencies of every nature that the future may embrace, throughout the
remainder of our cruise, and enlighten me with your opinion as to the
best course to be pursued.
"I am, very respectfully, gentlemen, your most obedient,
Alex. SLIDELL MACKENZIE,
Commander
To Lieutenant Guert Gansevoort, Past Assistant Surgeon R. W. Lee-
cock, Purser H. M. Heiskill, Acting Master M. C. Perry, Midshipman
Henry Rodgers, Midshipman Egbert Thompson, Midshipman Chas. W.
Hayes.
Before handing in this letter to the officers concerned, Com-
mander Mackenzie had made four more arrests on the morning of
Wednesday. Wilson, already suspected on account of the hand-
spike incident; McKinley, one of those on Spencer's list as "Cer-
tain"; Green, who had missed muster at mid-watch; and Alexand-
er McKie, a close friend of Cromwell's, and also an absentee at
muster, all were put in irons. There were now seven prisoners in


  p. 2078 (#1030)                      

2078
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
double irons on the quarter-deck, incidentally in the way of every-
body, and interfering seriously with the working of the ship.
The officers addressed met in council at once in the wardroom
and began the examination of witnesses. This business lasted all
day long without their adjournment even for food, and was not
finished at nightfall; during this time Commander Mackenzie re-
mained in charge of the deck with the young acting midshipmen.
He then ordered the adjournment of the council until next day,
and he drew up a special watch-bill for the night in which he took
charge of the starboard watch himself and put Mr. Gansevoort in
charge of the larboard. He states that he was determined not to
pass another such anxious night as the previous one. But there
was not much sleep that Wednesday night, and on the morning
of December 1, about nine o'clock, the following letter was handed
to him from the council of officers by Mr. Gansevoort:
U. S. Brig Somers,
Sir:
December 1, 1842
In answer to your letter of yesterday, requesting our counsel as to
the best course to be pursued with the prisoners, Acting Midshipman
Philip Spencer, Boatswain's Mate Samuel Cromwell, and Seaman Elisha
Small, we would state, that the evidence which has come to our knowledge
is of such a nature as, after as dispassionate and deliberate a consideration
of the case as the exigencies of the time would admit, we have come to a
cool, decided, and unanimous opinion that they have been guilty of a full
and determined intention to commit a mutiny on board of this vessel of a
most atrocious nature; and that the revelation of circumstances having
made it necessary to confine others with them, the uncertainty as to what
extent they are leagued with others still at large, the impossibility of
guarding against the contingencies which a day or an hour may bring
forth,' we are convinced that it would be impossible to carry them to the
United States, and that the safety of the public property, the lives of
ourselves, and of those committed to our charge, require that (giving
them sufficient time to prepare) they should be put to death, in a manner
best calculated as an example to make a beneficial impression upon the
disaffected. This opinion we give, bearing in mind our duty to our God,
our country, and to the service.
"We are, sir, very respectfully, your obedient servants,
GuERT GANSEVOORT, Lieutenant
R. W. LEECOCK, Past Assistant Surgeon
H. M. HEISKILL, Purser
M. C. PERRY, Acting Master
Henry RODGERS, Midshipman
EGBERT THOMPSON, Midshipman
Chas. W. Hayes, Midshipman


  p. 2079 (#1031)                      

1925)
2079
Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig "Somers”
“Put to death!" and "put to death in a manner best calculated
as an example to make a beneficial impression!” The minds of
Commander Mackenzie and of his officers can truly be said to have
run in the same channel. As if the verdict had been expected and
foreseen by him, he states that he "at once concurred in the justice
of the opinion and in the necessity of carrying its recommenda-
tions into immediate effect.” He tells us that he selected the three
mutineers, Spencer, Cromwell, and Small, from the rest, for ex-
ecution, because they alone were capable of navigating and sailing
the ship. With them out of the way there would remain no fur-
ther reason for the rescue of prisoners or for converting the ship
into a pirate. As to the momentous decision itself, the decision
to execute, he believed that he was driven to it by circumstances.
He says—and in this saying is the whole reason for his subsequent
actions—“In the necessities of my position I found my law, and
in them also I must trust to find my justification.”
We are now at the last act of this drama on the high seas. What
happened cannot be as well described by another as by Com-
mander Mackenzie himself in his report to the Secretary of the
Navy.
I gave orders to make immediate preparations for hanging the three
principal criminals at the main yard arms; all hands were now called to
witness punishment. The afterguard and idlers of both watches were
mustered on the quarter-deck at the whip intended for Mr. Spencer; the
forecastle men and foretop men at that of Cromwell, to whose corruption
they had been chiefly exposed; the maintop men of both watches at that
intended for Small, who for a month or more had held the situation of
captain of the maintop. The officers were stationed about the decks ac-
cording to the watch-bill that I had made out the night before, and the
petty officers were similarly distributed, with orders to cut down whoever
should let go the whip with even one hand, or fail to haul on it when
ordered. The ensign and pennant being bent on and ready for hoisting, I
now put on my full uniform and proceeded to execute the most painful
duty that has ever devolved upon an American commander—that of announc-
ing to the criminals their fate.
Let me interrupt his narrative for a moment in order to quote
a remark by Charles Sumner in regard to the scene which was
now about to take place: “The annals of the world,” says Mr.
Sumner, “do not afford a more impressive scene than that of the
young commander of a small ship, away from his country, at sea,
in the exercise of what he believes to be a solemn duty, ordering


  p. 2080 (#1032)                      

2080
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
the execution at the yardarm of a brother officer, the son of a dis-
tinguished minister of state.”
Returning to the Mackenzie report, it continues as follows:
I informed Mr. Spencer that when he had been about to take my life,
and dishonor me as an officer when in the execution of my rightful duty,
without cause of offence to him, on speculation, it had been his intention
to remove me suddenly from the world in the darkness of night, in my
sleep, without a moment to utter one murmur of affection to my wife and
children, one prayer for their welfare. His life was now forfeited to his
country, and the necessities of the case, growing out of his corruption of
the crew, compelled me to take it. I would not, however, imitate his
intended example, as to the manner of claiming the sacrifice. If there
yet remained to him one feeling true to nature, it should be gratified. If
he had any word to send to his parents, it should be recorded and faith-
fully delivered. Ten minutes should be granted him for this purpose,
and Midshipman E. Thompson was called to note the time and inform me
when the ten minutes had elapsed.
This intimation overcame him entirely. He sank, with tears, upon his
knees and said that he was not fit to die. I repeated to him his own
catechism, and begged him at least to let the officer set, to the men he had
corrupted and seduced, the example of dying with decorum.
This immediately restored him to entire self-possession; and, while he
was engaged in prayer, I went and made in succession the same communica-
tion to Cromwell and Small. Cromwell fell upon his knees completely
unmanned, protested his innocence, and invoked the name of his wife. Mr.
Spencer said to me, “As these are the last words I have to say, I trust that
they will be believed. Cromwell is innocent." The evidence had been
conclusive, yet I was staggered. I sent for Lieutenant Gansevoort and
consulted him. He said there was not a shadow of doubt. I told him
to consult the petty officers. He was condemned by acclamation by the
petty officers. He was the one man of whom they had real apprehensions ;
the accomplice at first, and afterward the urger on of Mr. Spencer, who
had trained him to the act by which he intended to benefit.
I returned to Mr. Spencer; I explained to him that remarks had been
made about the two not very flattering to him and which he might not
care to hear, which showed the relative share ascribed to each of them
in the contemplated transaction. He expressed great anxiety to hear
what was said. One had told the first lieutenant “In my opinion, sir, you
have the damned fool [meaning Spencer) on the larboard arms chest, and
the damned villain (meaning Cromwell] on the starboard; "another had
remarked that after the vessel should have been captured by Mr. Spencer,
Cromwell might allow him to live, provided he made himself useful; he
would probably make him his secretary. I remarked, “I do not think this would
have suited your temper." This effectually aroused him; his countenance
assumed a demoniacal expression; he said no more of the innocence of
Cromwell. * * * * Small alone, whom we had set down as the poltroon of
the three, and on that account had at first determined not to iron, received


  p. 2081 (#1033)                      

1925)
2081
Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig "Somers"
the announcement of his fate with composure. When asked if he had any
preparation to make, any message to send, he said, "I have nobody to care
for me but my poor old mother, and I would rather that she should not
know how I have died.”
I returned to Mr. Spencer and asked him if he had no message to send
to his friends; he answered, “None that they would wish to receive."
When urged still farther to send some words of consolation in so great
an affliction, he said, “Tell them I die wishing them every blessing and
happiness; I deserve death for this and many other crimes—there are
few crimes that I have not committed; I feel sincerely penitent, and my
only fear of death is that my repentance may be too late." I asked him if
there was anyone whom he had injured to whom he could yet make repara-
tion-anyone who was suffering obloquy for crimes which he had com-
mitted; he made no answer, but soon after continued; "I have wronged
many persons, but chiefly my parents;" "This will kill my poor mother.
* * * *" Afterward he said to me, “But have you not formed an ex-
aggerated estimate of the extent of this conspiracy?" I told him, "No,"
that his systematic efforts to corrupt the crew and prepare them for the
indulgence of every evil passion, since the day before our departure from
New York, had been but too successful. I knew that the conspiracy was
still extensive—I did not know how extensive. I recapitulated to him the
arts which he had used; he was startled by my telling him that he had made
the wardroom steward steal brandy and had given it to the crew; he said,
“I did not make him steal it"; I told him that it was brought at his request-
that he knew where it came from-it was, if possible, more criminal to
seduce another to commit crime than to commit crime one's self; he
admitted the justice of this view. He turned again to say to me: “But are
you not going too far-are you not fast? Does the law entirely justify
you?" I replied that he had not consulted me in making his arrangements-
that his opinion could not be an unprejudiced one—that I had consulted
all of his brother officers, his messmates included, except the boys, and I
placed before him their opinion. He stated that it was just, that he
deserved death; he asked me what was the manner of death; I explained
it to him; he objected to it and asked to be shot; I told him that I could
not make any distinction between him and those whom he had corrupted ;
he admitted that this also was just; he objected to the shortness of the
time for preparation, and asked for an hour; no answer was made to this
request, but he was not hurried, and more than the hour for which he
asked was allowed to elapse. He requested that his face might be covered ;
this was readily granted, and he was asked with what it should be covered ;
he did not care; a handkerchief was sought in his locker; none but a black
one found and this brought for the purpose.
I now ordered that the other criminals should be consulted as to their
wishes in this particular; they joined in the request and frocks were
taken from their bags with which to cover their heads. Mr. Spencer asked
to have his irons removed; this could not be granted; he asked for a
Bible and a prayer book; they were brought, and others ordered to be


  p. 2082 (#1034)                      


MUTINY ON BOARD THE UNITED STATES BRIG “SOMERS”
EXECUTION OF SPENCER, CROMWELL, AND SMALL
From the "Piratical and Tragical Almanac" for 1846; Philadelphia


  p. 2083 (#1035)                      

1925]
2083
Attempied Mutiny on U. S. Brig “Somers"
furnished to his accomplices. “I am a believer," he said; "do you think
that repentance at this late hour can be accepted ?" I called to his recol-
lection the case of the penitent thief who was pardoned by our Savior upon
the cross. He then read in the Bible, kneeled down and read in the prayer
book; he again asked if I thought that his repentance could be accepted-
that the time was so short, and he did not know if he really was changed.
I told him that God, who was all-merciful as well as all-wise, could not
only understand the difficuties of his situation, but extend to him such a
measure of mercy as his necessities might require. He said, “I beg your
forgiveness for what I have meditated against you.” I gave him my
hand, and assured him of my sincere forgiveness; I asked him if I had
ever done anything to him to make him seek my life, or whether the hatred
he had conceived for me, and of which I had only recently become aware,
was fostered for the purpose of giving himself some plea of justification.
He said, “It was only a fancy—perhaps there might have been something
in your manner which offended me." * * * * When Mr. Wales came up,
Mr. Spencer extending his hand to him, said, “Mr. Wales, I earnestly hope
you will forgive me for tampering with your fidelity." Mr. Spencer was
wholly unmoved, Mr. Wales almost overcome with emotion; he replied, "I
do forgive you from the bottom of my heart and I hope that God may
forgive you also.” “Farewell,” exclaimed Mr. Spencer, and Mr. Wales,
weeping and causing others to weep, responded “Farewell.” Mr. Spencer
now passed on; about this time he asked for Midshipman Rodgers, but he
had no orders to leave his station: I was only afterward aware of the
request. At the gangway Mr. Spencer met Small with the same calm
manner, but with a nearer approach to emotion; he placed himself in front
of Small, extended his hand and said, "Small, forgive me for leading you
into this trouble.” Small drew back with horror—“No, by God! Mr.
Spencer, I can't forgive you.” On a repetition of the request, Small ex-
claimed in a searching voice, "Ah, Mr. Spencer, that is a hard thing for
you to ask me; we shall soon be before the face of God, and there we shall
know all about it.” “You must forgive me, Small—I can not die without
your forgiveness." I went to Small and urged him to be more generous-
that this was no time for resentment. He relented at once, held out his
hand to take the still-extended hand of Mr. Spencer, and said with
frankness and emotion, “I do forgive you, Mr. Spencer; may God Almighty
forgive you, also !" Small now asked my forgiveness; he was the one of.
the three who was most entitled to compassion; I took his hand and ex-
pressed my complete forgiveness in the strongest terms that I was able;
I asked him what I had ever said or done to him to make him seek my
life, conscious of no injustice or provocation of any sort: I felt that it was
yet necessary to my comfort to receive the assurance from his own lips.
If any wrong had been done him-if any word of harshness, in the impa-
tience or excitement of duty, had escaped me, I was ready myself to ask
the question before he exclaimed, “What have you done to me, Captain
MacKenzie? What have you done to me, sir?-nothing, but treat me
like a man.” I told him, in justification of the course which I was pur-


  p. 2084 (#1036)                      


an
THE U. S. BRIG-OF-WAR "SOMERS"
From a contemporary print. The two bodies are those of Cromwell and Small. Spencer's body was on the port
yard-arm.


  p. 2085 (#1037)                      

1925] Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig “Somersomers" ”
it, this: "You arebisher duty to his or re
2085
suing, that I had high responsibilities to fulfil—that there were duties
that I owed to the government which had intrusted me with this vessel-
to the officers placed under my command—to those boys whom it was
intended either to put to death, or reserve for a fate more deplorable:
there was yet a higher duty to the flag of my country. He was touched
by this: “You are right, sir ; you are doing your duty, and I honor you for
it; God bless that flag and prosper it! Now brother topmates,” he said,
turning to those who held the whip, "give me a quick and easy death." He
was placed on the hammocks forward of the gangway, with his face in-
board. Mr. Spencer was similarly placed abaſt the gangway, and Crom-
well also on the other side.
Mr. Spencer, about this time, sent for Lieutenant Gansevoort, and told
him that he might have heard that his courage had been doubted; he
wished him to bear testimony that he died like a brave man. He then
asked me what was to be the signal of the execution. I told him that being
desirous to hoist the colors at the moment of execution, at once to give
solemnity to the act and to indicate that by it the colors of the Somers
were fixed to the masthead, I had intended to beat the call as for hoisting
the colors, then roll off, and at the third roll fire a gun. He asked to be
allowed himself to give the word to fire the gun; I acceded to the request,
and the drum and fife were dismissed. * * * * Time still wearing away
in this manner, Small requested leave to address the crew. Mr. Spencer
having leave to give the word, was asked if he would consent to the
delay. He assented, and, Small's face being uncovered, he spoke as follows:
"Shipmates and topmates, take warning by my example; I never was a
pirate, I never killed a man; it's for saying that I would do it that I am
about to depart this life; see what a word will do. It was going in a
Guinea-man that brought me to this; beware of a Guinea-man." He turned
to Mr. Spencer, and said to him, “I am now ready to die, Mr. Spencer, are
you?”
Cromwell's last words were; "Tell my wife I die an innocent man:
tell Lieutenant Morris, I die an innocent man.” But it had been the game
of this man to appear innocent, to urge Mr. Spencer on, to furnish him
with professional ideas, to bring about a catastrophe, of which Mr. Spencer
was to take all of the risk, and from which he, Cromwell, was to derive all
of the benefit. He had taken a great many precautions to appear innocent,
but he had not taken enough. I now placed myself on the trunk in a
situation from which my eye could take in everything. I waited for some
time, but no word was given.
Even after eighty-three years we seem to fix our eyes upon the
young culprit and wait from moment to moment, amid the silence
of the crowded deck, for the word which will hang him, to issue
from his own lips. One minute passes, then another and another,
but he cannot utter it, and turning to a boatswain's mate named
Browning, asks him to tell the captain that he is unable to speak
the word, and that he wishes the captain to give the word himself.


  p. 2086 (#1038)                      

2086
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Commander Mackenzie then called out, “Stand by. Fire!" The
first lieutenant sang out, "Whip!" and the three men were run up
to the yard, Spencer on the port side, Small and Cromwell on the
starboard.
The crew were then called aft and Commander Mackenzie ad-
dressed them at length. He spoke of the tragedy of Spencer's
young life being ruined by his own ill-regulated ambition and his
infamous aims; how he had disgraced his honored parents and
thrown away the chance to win success in his profession; he spoke
of the future of his hearers and told them how it was entirely in
their power to win competence and rank by their own character
and industry; he told them that their conduct must be founded on
truth, honor, and fidelity; and he illustrated his remarks by anec-
dote. The rest of the day is thus described by him:
The crew were now piped down from witnessing punishment, and all
hands called to cheer the ship. I gave the order, “Stand by, to give three
hearty cheers for the flag of our country"; never were three heartier
cheers given. In that electric moment, I do not doubt that the patriotism
of even the worst of the conspirators, for an instant, broke forth. I felt
that I once more was completely commander of the vessel that was
intrusted to me, equal to do with her whatever the honor of my country
might require. The crew were now piped down and piped to dinner. I
noticed with pain that many of the boys, as they looked at the yard arm,
indulged in laughter and derision. I still earnestly desired that Mr.
Spencer should be buried as officers usually are, in a coffin. I ordered one
to be forthwith made from a portion of the berth-deck; but Lieutenant
Gansevoort, having offered to relinquish two mess chests, used instead of a
wardroom stores room, they were soon converted into a substantial coffin.
When the hour usually given to the crew's dinner was over, the watch
was set and the bodies lowered from the yardarms and received by the
messmates of the deceased, to be decently laid out for burial, the midship-
men assisting in person. When all was ready, the first lieutenant invited
me to accompany him to see that these duties had been duly performed.
Mr. Spencer was laid out on the starboard armschest, dressed in complete
uniform, except the sword, which he had forfeited the right to wear.
Further forward, the two seamen were also laid out with neatness. . . . .
At this moment a sudden squall sprung up, making it necessary to reduce
sail; it was attended by heavy rain, and tarpaulins were hastily thrown
over the corpses. The squall over, the sailors were sewed up in their
hammocks—the body of Mr. Spencer was placed in the coffin. The three
corpses, arranged according to rank, Mr. Spencer alt, were placed along
the deck. All hands were now called to bury the dead; the procession was
formed according to rank; . ... the ensign was lowered to half-mast.
Before the corpses had been placed on the lee, hammock-sails were ready
for lowering overboard. The night had already set in; all of the battle


  p. 2087 (#1039)                      

1925]
2087
Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig “Somers”
lanterns and the other lanterns in the vessel were lighted and distributed
among the crew. Collected, with their prayer books, on the booms, in the
gangways, and lee-quarter-boat, the service was then read, the responses
audibly and devoutly made by the officers and crew, and the bodies were
consigned to the deep.
Night closed in. The little brig was free at last of the dangers
of the past six days. An immediate change in the demeanor of
the crew took place; where slowness and sullenness had prevailed,
were now alacrity and obedience. That night for the first time in
several nights sleep again visited the pillows of the officers. The
ship continued on her way to New York via St. Thomas, with the
four remaining prisoners kept in manacles to await trial on their
arrival in the United States.
Thirteen days after the execution, or on December 14, she
sailed past the lower end of Manhattan Island up the East River,
and dropped anchor off the Navy Yard, Brooklyn. It became evi-
dent that there was something mysterious about the ship, for her
officers did not come ashorė on leave, and visitors were not allowed
to go on board of her. A brother of Lieutenant Gansevoort was
denied admission to the ship. Commander Mackenzie, on coming
to anchor, had sent one of his officers ashore, Midshipman O H.
Perry, with instructions to proceed to Washington and deliver to
the Secretary of the Navy a letter containing a brief report of the
attempt at mutiny and the subsequent events, and requesting a
court of inquiry. Then he ordered all of the ship's company to
go ashore with him; and with himself at their head marched sol
emnly to the nearest church, where he gave public thanks to
Almighty God for the recent miraculous preservation of his ship
and her company from the horrors of capture and murder by
mutineers. This ceremony completed, they returned to the ship.
A tendency toward religious exaltation on the part of Commander
Mackenzie is noticeable in several instances while he was handling
the mutiny on board his ship, and it should be regarded as a trait
in his character.
On December 19, Commander Mackenzie supplemented his first
brief report to the Secretary of the Navy by a very long one giving
a full account of the attempted mutiny, together with the reasons
for his own actions in relation to it. It is from this report that
quotations have already been made in this article. It was pub-
lished in Washington by authority of the government and was
copied by newspapers in all parts of the country. A sure theme


  p. 2088 (#1040)                      

2088
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
of conversation in every gathering of people was the mutiny on
board the Somers. The social prominence of the actors in it, the
terrible outcome of the scheme, made the subject a burning one.
Soon the influence of political feeling on opinion was shown by
those persons who were Henry Clay Whigs and detested Presi-
dent Tyler, for to them the fact that Midshipman Spencer's father
was a member of Mr. Tyler's Cabinet was an incentive to believe
that Commander Mackenzie had probably dealt justly with the
son of his father. The personal attraction of Commander Macken-
zie, the excellent reputation that he enjoyed as an officer, and his
popularity as a literary man—all helped to make the majority of
educated people both in New York and Boston disposed to believe
that in suppressing the mutiny he could not have avoided perform-
ing the disagreeable duty of over-riding the law. Nevertheless,
there was a minority of thinking persons who refused to take this
attitude, and awaited, with great interest the court of inquiry
which had been ordered by the Navy Department and which was
to meet in open session on December 28, on board the U.S.S.
North Carolina at the Navy Yard, Brooklyn. Even among his ad-
mirers there was general regret at the style and tone of his long
statement to the Secretary of the Navy. As Mr. Philip Hone,
who was friendly to him, remarks in his diary: “The truth is,
there is much to be seen in this statement of the pride of author-
ship.”
The numbers of the court of inquiry were the following dis-
tinguished veterans: Commodore Charles Stewart, who had
fought the famous action of the Constitution with the Cyane and
Levant twenty-seven years before; Commodore Jacob Jones, who
on the Wasp took the Frolic in 1812; and Commodore Alexander
J. Dallas, who had fought under Rodgers in the President. The
judge-advocate was Mr. Ogden Hoffman, District Attorney of
New York, who had formerly been in the Navy, and Mr. John
Hone was allowed to assist Commander Mackenzie in his defense.
The court was ordered to report to the Navy Department its opin-
ion as to the right and propriety of the conduct of Commander
Mackenzie in ordering the execution of Midshipman Spencer and
Cromwell and Small. It sat from December 28, 1842, until Jan-
uary 19, 1843, examining in this time all of the officers of the
Somers and the majority of the crew. As it was only a court of
inquiry and was destined to be followed by a court-martial of


  p. 2089 (#1041)                      

1925) Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig "Somers."
2089
Commander Mackenzie, its findings have not quite the same
weight as those of the later and more thorough investigation, but
every word of its proceedings was followed from day to day by
the whole country. “All the world," writes Richard Henry Dana
on December 29, “is talking about the Somers mutiny and the
execution of Spencer. The prevailing opinion (I have not met an
exception), is that Mackenzie will justify himself. I have little
doubt of it.”
The findings of the court under the date of January 20, 1843,
were as follows (I quote only the last clause) :
That Commander Mackenzie under these circumstances was not bound
to risk the safety of his vessel, and jeopardize the lives of his crew, in order
to secure to the guilty the forms of trial, and that the immediate execution
of the prisoners was demanded by duty and justified by necessity. The
court are further of opinion that throughout all of these painful occur-
rences so well calculated to disturb the judgment and try the energy of the
bravest and most experienced officer, the conduct of Commander Mackenzie
and his officers was prudent, calm, and firm, and he and they honorably
performed their duty to the service and their country.
(Signed) CHARLES STEWART,
President of the Court
While the court of inquiry was still sitting, and before its find-
ings were arrived at, the Navy Department, either at the instiga-
tion of Secretary of War Spencer, or on its own initiative, decided
that a court-martial of Commander Mackenzie was required by
the circumstances. In this decision it was probably expressing the
growing opinion of the thinking public. On February 2, there-
fore, an impressive court-martial composed of thirteen officers,
eleven captains and two commanders, with Captain Downes as
president, met on board the U.S.S. North Carolina. The judge-
advocate was Mr. William H. Norris, of Baltimore, and the coun-
sel for the accused were Messrs. John Duer, George Griffin, and
Theodore Sedgwick, distinguished lawyers of New York. Two
other equally distinguished lawyers, Charles O'Connor and B. F.
Butler, also of New York, were, for some unknown reason, de-
nied the right to be present at the sessions of the court to rep-
resent the interests of the dead midshipman and his comrades.
On February in the court transferred its sittings to the little
chapel in the Navy Yard, Brooklyn, where it continued to meet
every week-day until its final verdict on March 28. During all of
this time the controversy of the public over the conduct of Com-


  p. 2090 (#1042)                      

2090
Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
mander Mackenzie never ceased to rage. It even reached Eng-
land where the reviews strongly condemned Mackenzie and called
him murderer and other names. Our own New York Herald used
similar language toward him. Every day of the trial visitors would
come over from New York to Brooklyn to attend it. “My daugh-
ters," writes Philip Hone in his diary, "went over with Mrs.
de Peyster, Mrs. John Hone, and Emily. I also formed one of
the delighted audience, prejudiced, I acknowledge, in favor of the
accused.”
The charges against Commander Mackenzie at this court-
martial were five in number, as follows: murder, oppression,
illegal punishment, conduct unbecoming an officer, and cruelty.
Of these, the last two were abandoned for want of proof. On
April 14, 1843, the verdict was promulgated. As all of the world
knows, it was one of acquittal, though the word "honorable" was
not included before the word "acquittal”; and the finding was
simply “confirmed and carried into effect without any expression
of approbation or disapprobation on the part of the President, no
such expression being necessary.”
The proceedings of the famous trial are almost as interesting
now as when they took place. We devour the testimony with a
determination to digest it and to know where we stand in regard
to a decision on the facts as they appear to us. With such a motive
the present writer will note and comment on a few of the salient
points of the trial, weighing the testimony from the viewpoint of
one who has a knowledge of later facts additional to those brought
out in the trial. To begin with, the crew of the Somers included
89 sailors under age out of 108 persons; and the age of no fewer
than 83 of these boys ran from only 13 years to 19 years. There
were only 18 men of over 21 years of age. If any proof of the
boyishness, not to say childishness, of a part of the crew were
needed, it is furnished by the recital in Commander Mackenzie's
letter to the Secretary of the Navy, of the shocking levity of these
lads just after the hanging of the three prisoners. “I noticed with
pain,” he says, "that many of the boys, as they looked at the yard-
arm, indulged in laughter and derision." The first thought that
occurs to one in reading of this youthful crew is that the mutiny
must have been confined to a small group of grown men on the
ship. Assuming that half of the grown men would be loyal, and
adding to them the eleven officers, there would seem to be a for-


  p. 2091 (#1043)                      

1925)
2091
Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig "Somers"
midable band of about twenty people to handle the remaining
grown men and the boys. This does not appear at first sight a
dangerous situation, but let us read on and see what Richard
Henry Dana says about it. He went on board the Somers when
he was in New York and noted her "single narrow deck flush fore
and aft," and that there were only two exits to this deck from
below for the officers—one from the cabin and the other from
the steerage. “The officers,” he says, “would have to come up the
steps and through the small companion scuttles, at which a couple
of men could easily have cut them down or shot them as they
appeared.” Continuing, he says, "one must either have been at
sea or be willing to receive something on faith for those who have,
to judge fairly of this case.” He adds that the facts "are such as
can never come to us with the same force and meaning with which
they came to him (Commander Mackenzie) at the time.” Mr.
Dana writes thus in a letter to the Boston and New York papers
of January 11, 1843, before the trial by court-martial was begun,
and having already prejudged the case in favor of Commander
Mackenzie. On reading him today one asks oneself why the con-
ditions which he describes as possible in regard to the subjection
of all of the officers by only two armed mutineers, might not be
equally applicable if all the mutineers were below and only two
armed officers stood ready to cut them down as they poked their
heads above the lower deck.
We are told that Midshipman Spencer had a mania for piracy;
in fact, he tells us so himself. The impression received of this
young man, both from the testimony about him in this trial and
from other knowledge of him, is that he was a silly, vicious-
minded and insubordinate person, but only a lad of nineteen, and
possibly not yet developed as to character. Yet, in spite of his
youth, he might have been both a traitor and a villain. That Com-
mander Mackenzie regarded him as fully grown is shown by the
following statement he made to the court of inquiry:
I am prepared to prove that more than a year ago it was one of the
amusements of Mr. Spencer to relate to the young children of one of the
professors of Geneva College, in whose family he was domesticated,
murderous stories and tales of blood; that the chief and favorite theme of
his conversation was piratical exploits and the pleasures of a pirate's life; •
that the great object of his ambition was renown as a pirate; that the
book which he oftenest read, and which, on leaving Geneva College to
embark in a whaler, he presented to the students' library, was the Pirate's


  p. 2092 (#1044)                      

2092
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Own Book, and that it still remains there with his name in it; that, on
stepping into the stagecoach to leave Geneva, the last words he said to a
friend who took leave of him were that he would next be heard of as a
pirate.
The paper in Greek characters is evidence of how obsessed with
a desire to mutiny was the mind of young Spencer; yet there is
something decidedly childish and silly, first, in using Greek at all ;
second, in committing his scheme to paper; third, in calling the
attention of Midshipman Tillotson to the fact that he was at work
on a very mysterious paper which he could not allow anyone to
see; fourth, in putting down no less than twenty names as men
to be coerced, although the coercion was to be done by only four
who were “Certain" and perhaps by some of the “Doubtful."
Both his childishness and his ambition to be a pirate are also
shown by his drawing on one occasion a picture of a brig with a
black flag bearing a skull and crossbones, and then inviting the
attention of Midshipman Hayes to it. There is too much testi-
mony to doubt that this poorly developed young man would have
liked to mutiny, and the evidence also seems to show that he in-
duced Elisha Small to promise to follow his lead in case a mutiny
were put into effect. I am unable to fasten with certainty the
motive of mutiny on Samuel Cromwell. He was a desperate and
insubordinate man, but he was too able to be led by the nose in
any foolish and uncertain scheme. He had enemies before the
mast on account of his tyranny, and his intimacy with an officer
probably brought him more. But, the score of reasons given by
Commander Mackenzie for putting him in irons seems but neg-
ligible as legal testimony, and merely resolve themselves with one
general offense: namely, “the badness of his general character
and conduct.”
As there was no evidence of ill treatment by the officers of the
crew, but on the contrary there was a regard for their welfare and
comfort shown by Commander Mackenzie, there was not the
slightest excuse for a mutiny among the score of grown-up sailors
on the Somers. The apprentice boys were too young to be con-
sidered as material for the making of a mutiny. Therefore, it
was only a desire to roam the seas, to capture booty, to murder
men, and to enslave women, which appealed to the undeveloped
Spencer and to the weak-minded Small, and made them hope to
lead others along the same alluring way.


  p. 2093 (#1045)                      

1925) Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig “Somers”
2093
That discontent and sullenness existed among the crew after
leaving Madeira seems to be proved, but this might well have been
due to the bad examples of subordination shown by Spencer and
Cromwell. In any event, it never was considered dangerous until
the officers examined it in retrospect and connected it in their
minds with the subsequent symptoms of mutiny. Lieutenant
Gansevoort himself testifies that he had no suspicion of a mutiny
before November 26.
The sincerity of Commander Mackenzie's belief in the existence
of a plot to mutiny is conspicuous in every act of his during the
six days from November 26 to December 1. The same may be
said of Lieutenant Gansevoort. Belief in the mutiny, even if un-
founded, unquestionably justified the act of the commanding offi-
cer in putting the supposed ringleaders in irons; but, belief in a
plot to rescue the prisoners and to take possession of the ship
could only justify the law-breaking act of the execution of the
prisoners if founded on a reasoned certainty that the mutineers
could really effect a rescue, could really overcome the officers, and
could become the masters of the ship. There is nothing in the
evidence to prove that such a rescue was even meditated, or, if
attempted, could have succeeded. The imaginations of Com-
mander Mackenzie and his first lieutenant led them to create
greater dangers than existed. Their error in interpretation of the
facts before them led them into doing wrong. To put men in
irons is merely to take precautions; to hang them is a very grave
matter and may be to commit a crime.
The imagination of 1843 as exercised by the minds of sensible
men on the subject of piracy cannot be understood by us moderns
unless we remember that piracy had been as I have already re-
marked the "scourge of nearly every sea" until only recently, and
especially of the West Indies. Bearing this in mind we should
not be amazed at the language of Mr. Charles Sumner, who wrote
a long article on this trial, strongly favorable to Commander
Mackenzie, in the North American Review in 1843. Following
the lead of Mr. Griffin, the counsel of the accused, who had in-
dulged his fancy in imagining the Somers as having turned pirate
and captured some passenger ship plying between New York and
Europe, "freighted with the talent and beauty of the land,” Mr.
Sumner joins him in raising hands of horror at the subsequent
treatment of the fair passengers by the pirates, picturing the latter


  p. 2094 (#1046)                      

2094
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
as "bearing to foreign shores wives in the fresh morning of a
husband's love, and maidens the light and joy of happy house-
hold hearths,” and subjecting them to horrors indescribable. With
similar pictures in his mind, and, in addition, with a rooted con-
viction that the mutineers of the Somers were only waiting for
the proper moment to take possession of his ship, what else could
Commander Mackenzie do but hang the three would-be pirates
who were known to be the only ones among the mutineers who
could navigate and handle a vessel ?
As about half of the petty officers of the Somers were loyal and
were trusted by the commanding officer to the extent of his arm-
ing them against the mutineers, there does not seem to be any good
reason for supposing that the loyal men could not have prevented
the others from effecting a rescue of the prisoners until such time
as the brig might arrive at a port. The inconvenience, or the im-
possibility, of working the ship with seven prisoners in irons
encumbering the deck can hardly be considered as a reason for
hanging some of them in order to get them out of the way. Com-
mander Mackenzie kept four men in irons, McKinley, Green, Wil-
son, and McKie, all the way to New York, and as soon as he
dropped anchor there, put three more men and five big boys in
irons, for he suspected them all of having been concerned in the
mutiny, and not without some reason, for most of them had been
on Spencer's list - the “Doubtful.” Nothing could better illus-
trate his belief in magnitude of the conspiracy against his ship
than this confineinent of twelve persons, after executing three
others. Yet it is an extraordinary fact that a court-martial last-
ing forty days could not bring out sufficient evidence against these
twelve men and boys to make Commander Mackenzie, after con-
ferring with one of his lawyers, Theodore Sedgwick, decide to
bring charges against a single one of them. Well might it be com-
mented, as it was at the time: “If no offense could be discovered
which would subject the offenders [the twelve above mentioned]
to a trial before a court-martial, what becomes of all these charges
of mutinous conduct which compelled the commander to put three
helpless prisoners to death?” So wrote Mr. William Sturgis, of
Boston, an eminent ship master and practical seaman himself,
whose published remarks on the Somers case were in direct oppo-
sition to the opinions of his young friend and protegé, Richard
Henry Dana.


  p. 2095 (#1047)                      

1925)
2095
Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig "Somers”
The report of December 19, on the attempted mutiny, by Com-
mander Mackenzie is the most important document in this trial in
his defense, but its length of sixteen double-column printed pages
prevents its complete inclusion in this article. An estimate of the
general character of this paper as an argument in his favor, and
of the impression it makes on a reader of today, will now be
attempted by one who at least has endeavored to make an impartial
study of it. The first thing to be said of the report is that it is
too long. It is filled with remarks that tend to be irrelevant; or
if necessary to the story, they are treated with a weight that they
do not deserve. The whole report is emotional, written in a key
of exaltation that is at times religious, at times invoking in high-
sounding phrase the reverence for country and for flag which we
all feel. Its sincerity is evident, but so is its rhetoric, its impor-
tance, its confidence, its pride. There is blindness to its own
trivialities and to its inconsistencies in appraising the details of
the tragedy which it describes. One is amazed to read in this re-
port of Commander Mackenzie that among the defects of conduct
of Midshipman Spencer-defects which included drunkenness and
scandalous conduct—he lists the fact that Spencer had the "habit
of amusing the crew by making music with his jaw." "He had
the faculty," says Commander Mackenzie, "of throwing his jaw
out of joint, and by the contact of the bones, playing with accuracy
and elegance a variety of airs." This trivial, irrelevant, and child-
like announcement in the midst of his rel: of a profound
tragedy is not understood by the common-sense mind. It makes
us wonder if, with all his long report, he felt that tragedy as
deeply as it deserved to be felt. There are other examples of
uneven treatment of fact in his assignment of suspicion to the
various acts of some of the mutineers. He details at length unim-
portant traits of personality; he finds reason to see danger in
actions which appear to us to bear little or no evidence of guilty
motive. These he classes with other actions that are of real im-
portance. Prolix, self-conscious in its eloquence, occasionally un-
dignified, his report yet tells a story which of itself makes one read
every word of it; and it must be added that one rises from the
reading with a perplexed feeling as to just how deep the roots of
mutiny struck in the personnel on board the Somers. Was it as
deep as depicted by Commander Mackenzie ?


  p. 2096 (#1048)                      

2096
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The literature brought into being by the Mackenzie trial was
voluminous and in some cases of a high quality. The long review
of the case by Charles Sumner is pitched in the intellectual key
that we should expect. He states among other things that it is
absurd to say that the Somers was "not at least in apparent dan-
ger, when all the officers join in testifying to its existence," but
he adds that all question of the guilt or innocence of Spencer,
Cromwell, and Small is irrelevant. Providing the commanding
officer, seeing this apparent danger, acted in good faith in causing
the executions and believing them to be necessary to the safety
of his ship, then the commanding officer is entitled to receive the
protection of the law. This is, indeed, intellectual to the ordinary,
sea-going, ship-handling mind, which balks at the proposition that
whatever the commanding officer thinks to be danger, and what-
ever fearful interpretation he may put on acts that may merely be
somewhat out of the ordinary, nevertheless, he is justified in going
as far as he likes in combating the evil that he sees in his mind's
eye. To the common-sense reader of the testimony in this case
the facts of the situation do not appear to have been either accu-
rately or sensibly interpreted by the commanding officer and by
his first lieutenant, and therefore did not justify the sequel. Mr.
Sumner does not pay as much attention to weighing these facts as
he does to propounding law, which, of course, he knew as a master
and which we humbly accept from his lips. His review has literary
attraction, with its history of famous mutinies of the past, though
they do not seem to bear closely on the Somers' case. His estimate
of the value of Commander Mackenzie's services to the nation is
logical, even if excessive in its appraisal. Here it is: "He
[Mackenzie) has done more than gain a battle, and deserves more
than the homage of admiration and gratitude with which we greet
the victor returning from successful war. We thank him, and the
country thanks him, that he did not hesitate.” Commander
Mackenzie could ask no better friend and advocate than this, but
he had another endorser almost as admiring in Richard Henry
Dana, whose favoring letter to the New York and Boston papers
has, in the opinion of Charles Francis Adams, a permanent in-
terest, "for it is the judgment of a man whose judgment carried
weight in this painful episode in our naval history, in regard to
which opinions then were, and probably always will remain di-
vided.” Mr. Dana states the most important point in the case


  p. 2097 (#1049)                      

1925)
2097
Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig “Somers"
when he says that it is necessary for Commander Mackenzie to
prove that the arrested persons could not be taken into port in
irons. “For this," he adds, “must be made out, or the execution
is unjustifiable.” Mr. Dana wrote this letter during the court of
inquiry, but there is no record that his favorable conclusions of
that time were afterward altered by anything brought out in the
testimony of the court-martial. Mr. Adams is right in attributing
weight to the opinions of Mr. Dana. To the sea-faring student
of this case, Mr. Dana's reasoning, touched as it is with sympathy
for Mackenzie, carries such weight that he turns again to re-
examine the testimony of the officers of the Somers, and especially
of Sergeant Garty, Gunner's Mate Collins, Quartermaster Rogers
and other witnesses for the defense. Again he feels that although
there was undoubtedly a spirit of unrest and lawlessness existing
in a few minds on board the brig, yet he cannot read into these
signs as much as did Mr. Sumner and Mr. Dana. At this point
one should read the pungent articles of Mr. William Sturgis
already referred to, whose technical objections to Mr. Dana's con-
clusions in this case are convincing to one reader at least. Among
the interesting observations of Mr. Sturgis on the testimony of the
trial is the following: “Cromwell, I firmly believe had no more
intention to capture the Somers and turn pirate than had Com-
mander Mackenzie himself.”
But there is no article or review called forth by this remarkable
trial more analytical, more illuminating as to technicalities, than
the eighty-page review of it by James Fenimore Cooper, published
in New York in 1844. It is masterly in its keenness of observa-
tion of the motives behind the various acts of the chief persons
in the drama. Even a psycho-analyst would be satisfied with it.
The literary powers of the author are conspicuous, and those ad-
mirers of Cooper who collect his works are not aware that their
collections are seriously incomplete, if lacking the rare volume
known as The Mackenzie Case, with a review by J. F. Cooper.
There is no incident of importance in the whole six days' story
which he does not examine and interpret. The proved courage
of Commander Mackenzie is a matter of history, but we cannot
disagree with the general statement of Cooper when he remarks
that "brave men, those who are ready to risk their lives on all
suitable occasions, often see danger where there is truly none."
The substance of all of Mr. Cooper's reasoning and arguments


  p. 2098 (#1050)                      

2098
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
is to be found in the last four words of his review which attribute
the tragedy, among other causes, to a "lamentable deficiency of
judgment.”
Before the Cooper review was published the facts relating to
the division of the votes of the twelve officers who comprised the
court-martial at its close, appear to have been drawn out on
authority, and it was said that nine of the members of the court
had voted "not guilty” on the charge of murder, and three
"guilty”; on the charge of illegal punishment, eight had voted
“not guilty," and four "guilty.” The report that Commander
Mackenzie had not received a unanimous acquittal did not tend to
quiet the contention that raged around his name among civilians.
Among his colleagues it was different; for “the feeling was so
strong,” says G. R. Clark in his History of the Navy, "that it be-
came a point of etiquette among naval officers never to discuss the
mutiny on the Somers.” This silence, both among themselves and
especially toward the outside world, was continued for scores of
years. Captain William H. Parker, writing in his interesting
Recollections, as late as 1883, speaks of the mutiny on the Somers,
but adds that he declines to express any opinions concerning it.
That Commander Mackenzie still carried the majority of the
public with him just after the verdict of the court was made
known, is probable. On May 11, 1843, Mr. Philip Hone, of New
York, writes thus in his diary: "A letter is published signed by
three hundred merchants and others of our most respectable citi-
zens, addressed to Commander Alexander S. Mackenzie, express-
ing their approval of his conduct in the unhappy affair of the
mutiny on board the Somers and their congratulations on his
honorable acquittal by the court of inquiry and court-martial.
His answer to this high compliment is much better written and in
better taste than his unfortunate statement to the government on
his arrival. ...." Commander Mackenzie received a similar letter
of congratulation from citizens of the same class in the city of
Boston. The trial was now over-a thing of the past—and his-
tory, aided by time, was to deal with the mutiny on the Somers.
Thirteen years later the public was interested to read from the
pen of Senator Thomas H. Benton, of Missouri, a long review of
the whole tragedy in his book called the Thirty Years View. It
was strongly condemnatory of Mackenzie, but it probably ex-
pressed the prevailing civilian point of view as it had gradually


  p. 2099 (#1051)                      

1925)
2099
Attempted Mutiny on U. S. Brig “Somers”
shaped itself. The article is by an able mind, but too severe on
the officers of the Somers, and not so accurate in its facts or in-
ferences as the review by Fenimore Cooper. It is in strong con-
trast to the views held by the senator's colleague at the time of
writing, Mr. Charles Sumner, to whom he does not even refer
except to say that Mackenzie had been “encomiastically reviewed
in a high literary journal.” There does not appear to be any fur-
ther writing of note on the mutiny in this country until 1889 when
Miss Abigail Dodge, better known as “Gail Hamilton," wrote for
a magazine a full story of the tragedy in three instalments accom-
panied by illustrations, more or less accurate, of incidents in the
story. She called her article "The Murder of Spencer," and a note
of shrill denunciation of Commander Mackenzie and of some of
his officers runs through it, leaving them little character. Miss
Dodge calls aloud for the restoration of the three victims to the .
right to bear a good name. Her story is too blind in its judgments
to be valuable. It was impossible for Mackenzie to be as bad as
she painted him.
The naval histories have dealt with the mutiny on the Somers
either scantily, though favorably to Mackenzie, or else not at
all. Fenimore Cooper's third volume of his naval history, coming
down to 1852, was written by another hand than his own, and its
account of the mutiny, mildly favorable to Mackenzie, does not
reflect the opinion of Cooper himself. In 1900 Mr. Park Benjamin
in his History of the U. S. Naval Academy gives an account of
the mutiny, quotes with approval Charles Sumner on it, and vehe-
mently decries the efforts of those mistaken people who desire the
"canonization" of the "three miscreants” who had been, in his
opinion, rightly hanged. A similar view, though less pronounced
in its partiality to Mackenzie, is expressed in the history of the
Navy by G. Ramsay Clark and others, but its account of the occur-
rence is neither full nor very accurate.
But, let us get back to 1843 and the last chapter of this sad story.
There is no tragedy complete without women, and there were
three of them to suffer when the Somers dropped anchor off
Brooklyn. The mother of Spencer, shocked beyond relief, was
to die not long afterwards, believing sacredly in the innocence of
her son to the last. Even the rude Cromwell had a wife who cared
for him, and she tried, though in vain, to bring punishment
through the civil courts on the one she held responsible for her


  p. 2100 (#1052)                      

2100
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
bereavement. I find no record of the humble mother of the weak,
hard-drinking Small, but we know that she sent him to sea with a
Bible, and that a letter of affection from her aged hand was found
in it on the day that he was strung up.
As for the chief actor in this tragedy, there can be no better de-
scription of his plight, even after acquittal by his brother officers,
than the words which Mr. Sumner applied to him, quoting from
Plato: "He who has slain a man, however justly, is not to be
envied.” Commander Mackenzie was not happy in his remaining
years. How could he be, for the attacks upon him for his conduct
in the mutiny never wholly ceased ? In less than six years, dur-
ing which period he distinguished himself in the land attack on
Vera Cruz in the war with Mexico, he died at the comparatively
early age of forty-five. The brig Somers herself passed out of
existence in 1846, going down in a gale off Vera Cruz and carry-
ing three midshipmen and thirty-seven of her crew with her.
In writing of this painful event in our naval history the author
has been moved more by a desire to explain than to condemn. Our
judgment of the occurrence should include a knowledge of the
times as well as of the individuals.


  p. 2101 (#1053)                      

ENGINEERING ECONOMY ON AUXILIARY
VESSELS
By COMMANDER R. R. Smith, U. S. Navy
URING the year 1924-25, the engineering competition was
extended to include all auxiliary vessels in regular commis-
sion, 123 vessels being added. With the exception of ves-
sels of the gunboat class, all vessels in previous competition classes
have been of a more or less uniform military type with corre-
sponding similarity of duty. In the gunboat class a similarity of
duty existed without similarity of type. The arrangement of
auxiliary vessels into classes presented many difficulties, due to the
wide variation in type and duty performed. A vessel doing the
duties of a tender, for example, uses considerably more fuel than
a sister ship acting as a supply vessel. It was not practical to class
these vessels according to type, and the grouping was therefore
based upon duties performed. The original assignment to duties
involves similarity of type to some extent.
Three new classes were established as follows: transport class,
tender class, and mine sweeper class. The transport class, as the
name indicates, includes those vessels engaged in the service of
supply, and which would normally steam a great number of miles;
the tender class includes destroyer tenders, submarine tenders,
aircraft tenders, repair ships, aircraft carriers, and mine layers;
the mine sweeper class includes the mine sweepers of the bird class
and all commissioned ocean tugs. Surveying vessels were added
to the gunboat class.
The establishment of some form of engineering performances
for these vessels was felt essential in the interests of economy.
The widely varying expenditures of sister vessels indicated a lack
of economical operation which required remedial measures. Gen-
erally speaking, wide variations of fuel consumptions between
similar vessels for similar tasks, or between the different perform-
ances of any one vessel, indicate a lack of uniformity, which, in
turn, indicates an absence of standard engineering methods, and
consequently inefficient operation of the plant the greater part of


  p. 2102 (#1054)                      

2102
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
the time. The construction of a fuel consumption curve, using
fuel consumption per hour against speed, and plotting each record
of fuel consumption separately, shows graphically the spread or
range of fuel consumptions at any one speed. Ships showing uni-
formity of expenditures generally burn considerably less fuel than
ships showing large variables. Likewise, the consumption of fuel
in port shown by some auxiliary vessels was extremely high.
Many vessels of the tender class burn twice the fuel used by a
battleship, but for other vessels not engaged in cargo operations,
fuel consumptions at anchor should be far below battleship con-
sumption. In many cases, however, battleship consumption was
equalled or exceeded by these vessels.
The first step in any attempt to reduce fuel consumption is to
establish standards for the various operations and then to com-
pare the fuel consumptions to the standards. The comparative
figures or unit scores for each condition of operation serve as a
basis for comparing the work of the different vessels. It is quite
safe to use the consumptions of the best performer as a prelimi-
nary standard for the others, providing the machinery installation
does not vary greatly.
The problem of establishing port allowances for auxiliary ves-
sels presented many angles for solution. To give each vessel an
allowance for each hour, based on its average duty and average
needs, was not considered desirable because there exists a great
inequality in the number of assigned tasks and their duration, and
secondly, because it was not desired to encourage a curtailment
of work, which might result with a constant fixed allowance. The
alternative was to grant each vessel a basic hourly allowance at
anchor, predicated only on the normal ship needs without a work
load with additional allowances for service tasks. In the case of
an oil tanker, for example, the normal condition exists when the
cargo pumps are not in operation, and for a tender the normal
ship load is carried only when the ships are not in operation. The
method of assigning allowances for task units was therefore
adopted after service opinion was canvassed. Allowances for
intermittent work performed were made to cover the following
tasks:
Transport Class
Oilers-Discharging oil per 1,000 gallons.
Discharging water ballast per 1,000 gallons.
Cargo and ammunition Ships-Loading or discharging cargo per 100 tons.


  p. 2103 (#1055)                      

1925)
2103
Engineering Economy on Auxiliary Vessels
Colliers-Discharging coal per 100 tons.
Store Ships--Loading or discharging cargo per 100 tons.
Refrigerating cargo space 100 tons per hour.
Manufacturing ice per 100 lbs. for issue to other vessels.
A special allowance was made each vessel in this class for going along-
side a dock or another vessel to compensate the vessel for the uneconomical
underway performance occasioned by such maneuvers.
Tender Class
Electricity used by shops-per KW hour.
Electricity used to charge submarine batteries.
Supplying steam to other vessels-based on a percentage of the supplied
vessel's allowance per hour at anchor.
Mine Sweeper Class
An allowance for towing, equal to a percentage increase of the allowance
for the speed made was assigned vessels of this class for towing various
standard craft such as targets and barges. These percentages were es-
tablished by actual reports of towing operations for long periods at sea and
are probably correct and equitable.
A "tugging" allowance was established for work about closed harbors.
It is essentially arbitrary, bul. being the same for all vessels of this type, it
is basically equitable.
The mechanics of the competition for auxiliary vessels are not
as simple as for the military types. This is unfortunate, too, be-
cause an even simpler form would be desirable owing to the fewer
officers attached to these vessels and to their usual aversion to
"paper work." The onerous details are unavoidable if anything
in the nature of a real competition is to be established.
Why a competition for auxiliary vessels at all? The reductions
in fuel consumptions which are bound to result will be of such
major benefit that all objections are at once swept away. The
application of this competition to auxiliary vessels covering all
engineering performances both underway and in port compels an
attention to the condition of the plant, its hours of operation, its
methods of operation, and its fuel consumptions that will even-
tually insure, (1) reduced fuel consumptions, (2) better material
condition of the plant, (3) increased steaming radii, and (4) a
specific logistic knowledge of the capabilities of our auxiliaries by
the fleet commanders, which has heretofore not obtained. The
comparative performances of vessels of similar type will serve
squarely to indicate the efficient and inefficient vessels. There has
been a laissez faire in the matter of engineering performances of


  p. 2104 (#1056)                      

2104
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
these vessels which is soon to pass, and which, from all indica-
tions, is soon to be replaced by active and searching interest on
the part of those most concerned with the performances of these
vessels. One of the substantial benefits of the analyses which are
being made and which will continue to be made, is the informa-
tion placed in the hands of feet and unit commanders and com-
manding officers concerning these vessels. With such informa-
tion, they may point out defects and demand improvements.
One annual full power trial is required of each vessel. The
most frequent comments which appear on the reports of these
trials are: “This is the first full power trial held by this vessel
since the acceptance trials”; or, “This is the first full power trial
held of which there is any record.” There frequently appears com-
ment attesting to the lively interest displayed by the crew. The
surprising feature of these trials is the number of vessels making
successful trials. Several vessels have asked to have the required
speed increased, while one vessel laconically remarked that they
had to slow down from their normal cruising speed to make the
full power run. In some cases the speeds required were probably
too high. All of these things were, of course, to be expected, con-
sidering the lack of specific knowledge of the capabilities of the
vessels. They only serve again to indicate the necessity for closer
supervision.
In extension of the previous remarks concerning the widely
varying performances of similar vessels, there have been selected
several outstanding examples of performances by vessels of the
same types. The types of vessels are for obvious reasons omitted.
First Group
(Five sister vessels in group)
Vessel Vessel Vessel
No. I No.2 No. 3
Gallons of fuel used per hour not underway during
first month of competition ..... .... 118.2 233.4 126.4
Gallons of fuel used per hour not underway dur-
ing seventh month of competition ........... 84.1 133.4 107.5
Reduction in fuel consumption effected ........ 28.84% 42.84% 14.95%
The above table shows a marked fuel reduction not underway
for three of the vessels in a group of five, covering a period of
seven months. It also shows the wide difference in fuel consump-


  p. 2105 (#1057)                      

1925)
2105
Engineering Economy on Auxiliary Vessels
tions for vessels of the same type and an approach to a uniform
fuel consumption. The underway performances are difficult to
compare without producing curves because of the various speeds
at which they steamed during different months. Vessel No. I
steamed at a speed of 11.42 knots in the first month, using 57.1
gallons per mile, while vessel No. 2 steamed at a similar speed
(11.5 knots) in the sixth month, using 64.2 gallons per mile.
Assuming that the second vessel had made some improvement
underway during these six months, as was actually the case when
not underway, the difference is still more marked.
The amount of make-up feed used per mile underway and per
hour when not underway should reflect increased economy, both
because of reduction in power loss and reduction in the amount
of steam required to be generated. The data on make-up feed are,
unfortunately, nearly always inaccurate because water used under-
way and not underway is not properly recorded by ships. A
simple solution is to require that while underway or at anchor,
feed tanks be left at a standard level at the end of each watch,
thus requiring the amount used by the watch to be made up and
the amount so taken recorded in the log. Before getting underway
or coming to anchor, a similar procedure should be adopted, thus
charging the water to the proper performance. These data are ex-
tremely valuable, if accurate. Another example is shown:
Second Group
(Three sister vessels in group)
Vessel No. 1 Vessel No.2 Vessel No. 3
Gallons of fuel used per hour not under-
way during first month of competition.. 61.7
80.3 87.6
Gallons of fuel used per hour not under-
way during the seventh month of compe-
tition ................................
..... 52.
1 52. I 49.
9
62.5
Reduction in fuel consumption effected 15.55% 37.85% 28.65%
In the above example all of the vessels in the group showed a marked
improvement.


  p. 2106 (#1058)                      

2106
Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Third Group
(Consists of a large number of sister vessels)
High Group
Low Group
Vessel Vessel Vessel Vessel Vessel Vessel Vessel Vessel
No. 1 No.2 No.3 No. 4 No. 5 No.6 No. 7 No. 8
Gallons of fuel used
per hour not under-
way during first
month of competi-
tion............. 22.1
23.1
26.
2
37.3
33.4
36.
52.1
54.2
Gallons of fuel used
per hour not under-
way during seventh
month of competi-
ion............. 18.8 20.0 *37.8 23.6 | 33.4 49.2 36.4 49.6
* This vessel was "standing by” for a period of over ten days, which accounts for
the apparent increase.
The above group shows the four best performers and the four
poorest performers in a large group of sister vessels. The first
and second vessels indicate a uniform standard of excellence
which all of these vessels should reach. The fourth vessel has
done so, but the low group illustrates the extent to which wasteful
fuel consumptions may take place. The seventh vessel shows some
improvement, while the sixth vessel shows a large increase. This
table is instructive in showing the widely different results which
are obtained. It may safely be stated that the causes of the excess
fuel consumption in the low group are generally poor engineering
performances and poor condition of the plant. The other vessels
of this group show gradually increasing figures lying between the
figures shown for vessel No. 4 and those shown for Vessel No. 5,
these figures indicating the relative efficiency of the engineering
performances of these vessels. The application of the standard of
performance of the first vessel to the work of the last vessel is a
lever, the corrective value of which should be used to the utmost
by those charged with the administration of these units.
It is believed that sufficient comparisons have been made to show
that heretofore fuel consumptions have been excessive and unregu-
lated, and that if the large improvements indicated by some ves-
sels have been made in the short space of six months, continued
improvement may be expected from these vessels and from vessels


  p. 2107 (#1059)                      

1925) Engineering Economy on Auxiliary Vessels 2107
which are far below the standard of these vessels and which have
not as yet taken corrective measures.
It is unfortunate that direct comparisons without the presenta-
tion of elaborate curves cannot be made between the underway
performance of similar vessels, owing to the different average
speeds made which do not permit of direct comparisons. It will
be of interest, however, to note the improvement in the underway
performance of one vessel attributed by the commanding officer
to the stimulus of the competition and official scrutiny of results
obtained. Only the months showing similar speeds are used.
Steaming Performance of U.S.S. "
Cruising Radius Gallons of
Average Gallons of Fuel per 100,000 gals. Make-up Feed
Speed per Mile
of oil
per Mile
62.
First month.... 12.42
1613
20.4
Fourth month.. 12.62
63.8
1567
22.0
Sixth month... 12.83
49.9
2004
12.2
Eighth month.. 12.91
55.2
1812
12.2
Notwithstanding the slight increase in speed, the average
cruising radius for the sixth and eighth months shows an increase
of exactly 20 per cent over the average cruising radius of the first
and fourth months. The make-up feed per mile also shows a
marked reduction. These results are based on a mileage of over
30,000 miles and are therefore substantial evidences of the im-
provement possible in our auxiliary vessels.
Another example is that of a ship showing a marked reduction
of fuel consumption for all performances. A period of nine
months is covered in this tabulation, commencing with the first
month in which the vessel engaged in the competition. The en-
gineer officer of this vessel was a chief machinist's mate, which
makes the results attained the more notable.
It will be noted that in the ninth month this vessel steamed at an
average speed 1.8 knots greater than the average speed during the
fourth month, using but 63 per cent of the fuel per mile. The
similarity of percentages of reduction of fuel consumption both at
anchor, standing by and underway would indicate that the im-
provement was a permanent one and chargeable to fire-room
operation.


  p. 2108 (#1060)                      

2108
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Underway
Not Underway
Gallons
Fuel Oil
Per Mile
Average
Speed
At Anchor Standing by
Gallons Gallons
Fuel Oil Fuel Oil
Per Hour Per Hour
Gallons
Fuel Oil
Per Hour
42.6
31.7
24.2
80.2
63.7
37.3
26.6
25.3
First Month ...
Second Nonth..
Third Month... | At navy yard
Fourth Month..
Fifth Month... 8.64 28.2
Sixth Month... 8.12 22.5
Seventh Month 8.58 12.2
Eighth Month / 10.89 *18.75
Ninth Month... 9.50 16.77
29.0
36.2
50.6
41.2
17.9
32.88
28.13
24.1
10.9
21.0
21.56
66.0
62.2
49.7
23.9
49.4
53.35
Reduction in fuel consumption from
1st to 9th month...
33.28%
32.00%
33.48%
* Towing.
The attention of those interested in the subject of steaming
logistics is invited to the careful and elaborate compilations in the
Report of Engineering Performances (U. S. Navy), 1923-24
(Confidential). The same publication for the year 1924-25, when
issued, will record for the first time the logistics of our auxiliary
vessels in analyzed form.
In conclusion, it is desired to cite one of the most pointed ex-
amples of immediate beneficial results in the case of a tender
which successfully completed a 15 knot full power trial. The case
of this vessel is commented upon in a letter to the Department
which is quoted in part:
1. Until the completion of the last navy yard overhaul, the ........
.... was unable to make the speed of 10 knots in company with
the fleet. Various aspects of the unsatisfactory material condition of
....and the efforts to remedy them, have from
time to time been reported to the Department in separate corre-
spondence.
2. The commander ........ .......... fleet, considers it a great
credit to the commanding officer and to the engineer officer of the
....., who ascertained the causes of the unsatisfactory
performance of the .......... ...and initiated the necessary
steps to remedy them.
3. .....
the :


  p. 2109 (#1061)                      

1925)
2109
Engineering Economy on Auxiliary Vessels
4. It is probable that had the ......... .......... been in the
engineering performances as at present, and had been required to make
a full power run once a year, the very unsatisfactory condition would
have developed sooner and would have attracted wide and immediate
attention. It is even conceivable that had the ..
been in the engineering performances, the condition which has recently
been corrected might never have arisen.
5. The commander ..... ............ fleet, considers that the
inclusion of auxiliary vessels in engineering performances has already
produced and will continue to produce excellent results.
The reaction of the commanders afloat to the application of
competition to vessels of this type has been enthusiastic. To these
officers the benefits are, of course, obvious. The reaction of the
ships themselves has been excellent. The distribution of prize
money, letters of commendation, and awards of the “Navy E,”
will serve to increase the active interest of the personnel of the
service in the engineering performances of auxiliary vessels. A
large saving in fuel consumption should result, as the present fuel
consumption of auxiliary vessels amounts to thirty per cent of the
total fuel used by the forces afloat.


  p. 2110 (#1062)                      

STANDING ONE
LIEUTENANTS GEORGE K. WEBER AND C. W. STYER, U. S. Navy
THE objective of competition in engineering is to obtain
from the machinery installation the maximum efficiency,
having due regard for the kind of service performed, and
consequent restrictions and regulations imposed by the nature of
that service. The most unmistakable method of securing the best
results is thoroughly and intelligently to follow the procedure,
insofar as applicable, laid down in the Bureau of Engineering
Manual. To quote from the Rules for Engineering Performances,
1924-25:
Creditable attainments and gratifying performances are certain to
result from the policy of engineer officers exacting strict compliance
with the department's instructions regarding the methods of operation,
routine inspections, and tests.
Diligent study and application of the latest standard practices,
careful analysis of performances of all units of the engineering plant,
and patient, faithful training and instruction of the personnel will
contribute to progress, to economy, to efficient operation, to improved
material conditions, and to higher scores, all of which are factors that
help to maintain the fleet in the highest state of battle readiness.
Following these instructions has enhanced the condition of
machinery of the Oklahoma and improved her standing in com-
parison with other vessels of the fleet and with her own past per-
formances. At the end of the engineering year 1923-24 the Okla-
homa had a merit of 82.7 and stood twelfth in her class. To date
she has a merit of 110.5 and is standing one. This vast improve-
ment has resulted in spite of the fact that the fuel allowance, while
in port, has been reduced 10 per cent for half of the engineering
year 1924-25.
It is thought that a survey of the procedure followed in ob-
taining this unusual standing for the ship would be valuable to
engineer officers. While most of the methods are commonly used
in the fleet, yet a few of them may be of special interest to some
officers. The following is an indication of the methods adopted
aboard this ship:


  p. 2111 (#1063)                      

1925)
Standing One
2III
1. To assure the satisfactory mechanical condition of all ma-
chinery before attempting any methods of analysis, thus
eliminating false conclusions which might otherwise obtain.
2. A definite plan of operation was next established, based on
actual tests made on each unit.
3. High morale was fostered among the entire personnel.
SATISFACTORY MECHANICAL CONDITION OF MACHINERY
The first consideration in bringing the plant to a satisfactory
mechanical condition was to pay particular attention to the tight-
ness of main engine pistons, pump pistons and plungers, main
engine valves, pump valves and throttle valves, as well as the
alignment of all moving parts. This effort at mechanical per-
fection brought a natural and consequent lowering of water rates.
The tightness of stuffing boxes and joints which accompanied this
general overhaul materially reduced the amount of make-up feed,
bringing about a saving in water.
This plan also included the cleanliness of such parts of the in-
stallation as boilers, condensers, feed water heaters, and fuel oil
heaters, thus insuring a standard condition of material upon which
to base conclusions on methods of operation.
A series of tests was made on the various units, running them
as slowly as possible to accomplish the work desired, the real test
of a unit being how slowly it can be run to do the work desired.
As an example, the main circulating pumps on this ship, which are
of the reciprocating engine drive type, were brought to such a
mechanical condition that it was found possible to run them at
less than 50 per cent of their previous lowest speed and still
maintain proper amount of circulation through the condensers.
A point often overlooked by engineer officers is that machinery
running slower, and fewer units in operation will necessitate less
overhaul with consequent less strain on the personnel. Every
effort should be made to make the men realize this fact so that all
of their efforts will naturally tend toward getting best results.
This attempt at material perfection has made it possible for
this vessel, which is the only reciprocating engined vessel in the
battle fleet, to conform to an overhaul schedule outlined for tur-
bine driven ships.
When the material was in good condition, there was less routine
overhaul necessary and the ship's force effected major overhauls


  p. 2111 (#1064)                      

2II2
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
which, under other conditions, had been left to the navy yard
force. It is not necessary to state that there was also a great
saving in money and time for operating. It also made it possible
to defer the navy yard overhaul period seven months. This re-
Gallons of oil per hour
in hondrods)
le
6 10 12 i 16 1 20 22 14 16 2696 70
hour
Aoi
Boiler
per
2 Soilers
-
H. S.
3 Boilers
4 Boilere
s Boilers
6 Boilers
Combustion, Ibs. per sq. ft. of
7 Bollers
8 Boilers
9 Boilers
-
10 Boilers
Boilers
3 Boilers
-
Rate of
BOILER SELECTION
for Bill Boilers
CURVE
U.S.S
OKLAHOMA Fier.
torul "puol consémption in incronese or "ponds to poor " "
sulted in permitting other vessels which were in more urgent need
of navy yard overhaul to have their work done.
OPERATION
In all methods of proper operation the primary consideration
is to utilize the greatest percentage of heat generated by the burn-


  p. 2111 (#1065)                      

1925)
2113
Standing One
ing of the oil to give, first, the greatest amount of work from the
expansion of the steam and, second, after expansion, using the re-
maining heat with as little waste as possible.
To follow the heat from the point of its generation to its final
disposition at the various units, boiler operation is the first subject
to be dealt with.
Boilers.—In order to decide intelligently on the number of boilers
to be used for a certain speed, a curve of boilers versus revolutions
desired was developed, based upon the following factors:
(a) Curve of rate of combustion versus consumption of various
numbers of boilers (Fig. 1).
(6) Boiler efficiency curve (Fig. 2).
(c) Specific gravity of fuel oil in use.
(d) Curve of r.p.m. versus gallons of fuel oil required, (as
determined from the Bureau of Engineering allowance for
this vessel) (Fig. 3).
The curves in Fig. I are merely the rate of combustion multi-
plied by the heating surface in use, for one, two, three, etc., boilers,
to give the total oil consumption in pounds per hour. Using the
specific gravity of the oil in use, the abscissæ may be converted
to oil consumption in gallons per hour. It will be seen from
Fig. 2 that the best efficiency is obtained for a rate of combustion
of .3 of a pound of oil per square foot of heating surface per hour.
Therefore, combining curves in Fig. I and Fig. 3, using this eco-
nomical rate of combustion, gives the curve in Fig. 4, revolutions
per minute (standard speed) versus boilers. The legend of this
curve is self-explanatory, hence, given the desired revolutions per
minute from the ship’s monthly foul bottom curve corresponding
to the knots standard speed required, the economical number of
boilers may be selected. This selection at once gives the economi-
cal number of boilers and at the same time allows a large reserve
power, since rates of combustion as high as .6 of a pound of oil
per square foot of heating surface per hour may be had without
seriously affecting the efficiency. (See Fig. 2.)
Having determined the number of boilers to use the problem
then becomes one of proper regulation of oil temperatures and
pressures and of the number of blowers to use and their speed.
The proper oil temperature must be determined from the charac-
teristics of the oil used. Oil pressure is dependent upon the vis-


  p. 2112 (#1066)                      

2112
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
which, under other conditions, had been left to the navy yard
force. It is not necessary to state that there was also a great
saving in money and time for operating. It also made it possible
to defer the navy yard overhaul period seven months. This re-
Galloper poterit per hour
je u 6 10 1 1 16 18 20 22 ly 20 26 90 11 »
hour
/ Boiler
per
2. Boilers
H. S.
9 Boilers
4 Boilers
s Boilers
Combustion, Ibs. per sq. ft. of
o Boilers
7 Bollers
8 Boilers
9 Boilers
10 Boilers
Il Boilers
12 Boilers
-
-
of
Rate
CURVE
BOILER SELECTION
for Brw Boilers
U.S.S
OKLAHOMA fiat.
tore "tuor consémprion in records of "provinces or mor
sulted in permitting other vessels which were in more urgent need
of navy yard overhaul to have their work done.
OPERATION
In all methods of proper operation the primary consideration
is to utilize the greatest percentage of heat generated by the burn-


  p. 2113 (#1067)                      

1925]
2113
Standing One
ing of the oil to give, first, the greatest amount of work from the
expansion of the steam and, second, after expansion, using the re-
maining heat with as little waste as possible.
To follow the heat from the point of its generation to its final
disposition at the various units, boiler operation is the first subject
to be dealt with.
Boilers.-In order to decide intelligently on the number of boilers
to be used for a certain speed, a curve of boilers versus revolutions
desired was developed, based upon the following factors:
(a) Curve of rate of combustion versus consumption of various
numbers of boilers (Fig. 1).
(6) Boiler efficiency curve (Fig. 2).
(c) Specific gravity of fuel oil in use.
(d) Curve of r.p.m. versus gallons of fuel oil required, (as
determined from the Bureau of Engineering allowance for
this vessel) (Fig. 3).
The curves in Fig. I are merely the rate of combustion multi-
plied by the heating surface in use, for one, two, three, etc., boilers,
to give the total oil consumption in pounds per hour. Using the
specific gravity of the oil in use, the abscissæ may be converted
to oil consumption in gallons per hour. It will be seen from
Fig. 2 that the best efficiency is obtained for a rate of combustion
of .3 of a pound of oil per square foot of heating surface per hour.
Therefore, combining curves in Fig. I and Fig. 3, using this eco-
nomical rate of combustion, gives the curve in Fig. 4, revolutions
per minute (standard speed) versus boilers. The legend of this
curve is self-explanatory, hence, given the desired revolutions per
minute from the ship's monthly foul bottom curve corresponding
to the knots standard speed required, the economical number of
boilers may be selected. This selection at once gives the economi-
cal number of boilers and at the same time allows a large reserve
power, since rates of combustion as high as .6 of a pound of oil
per square foot of heating surface per hour may be had without
seriously affecting the efficiency. (See Fig. 2.)
Having determined the number of boilers to use the problem
then becomes one of proper regulation of oil temperatures and
pressures and of the number of blowers to use and their speed.
The proper oil temperature must be determined from the charac-
teristics of the oil used. Oil pressure is dependent upon the vis-


  p. 2114 (#1068)                      

2114
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
cosity of the oil used, load demand, and the size of the burner
tips in use. It is advisable for the engineer officer to make his
own determination of the characteristics of the oil since the oil
delivered may sometimes be a mixture of two oils of slightly
different characteristics.
The regulation of the blowers is materially aided by the smoke
watch using signals to signify “good combustion," and "too clear,"
as well as the usual smoke signals. This, together with the intelli-
gent use of uptake pyrometers will tend to give proper regulation
:
Boiler Erriciency of
Rete of Combustion
B and w
Boiler
H. S. • 4000 sq. ft.
rig.z.
wie oi oil"por iso or ''M.si po
how pero
w
12
13
14
of blowers, although varying demands for steam may be made.
It is noted that in trying to avoid smoking, the great tendency is
to use too much air for economical combustion, whereas good
combustion may be obtained without actually incurring any lia-
bility of smoking on changes of demand for steam. This, of
course, pre-supposes a well-trained fireroom force.
The chlorine content of water in the boilers should be below,
approximately, fifty grains of chlorine per gallon. In the oper-
ation of a boiler which has been thoroughly cleaned and which has
been filled with water of .5 grains of chlorine per gallon, it will
be found that the chlorine content of the water in the boiler will
increase at the rate of about two grains per gallon per day. In
this connection it should be noted that the amount of make-up feed
necessary has a very decided effect on the rate of increase of the


  p. 2115 (#1069)                      

1925)
Standing One
2115
chlorine content of the boilers. For instance, a plant that requires
only 2,000 gallons of make-up feed per day will deliver one half
the amount of chlorine to the boilers as an installation requiring
4,000 gallons of make-up feed. At a rate of increase of two grains
of chlorine per day the period at which the boiler reaches its limit
of steaming hours and its limit of chlorine content as stated, will
be at about the same time. It was found good practice on this
vessel to dump entirely the 50 grain water when the boiler was
cleaned. If this water is dumped in a so-called "up and down"
bottom, it can be run through the evaporators by a few changes
in the piping system and in this manner a great saving in water
is accomplished, in that this water may be forced through the
evaporators rapidly and half grain water produced at a less ex-
penditure of fuel.
In coming to anchor and securing, with a battery of boilers in
use, all fires should be died out as soon as word is received to se-
cure main engines. Instead of immediately securing all the un-
necessary boilers, the whole battery of boilers should be kept on
the line until the pressure has reduced to that pressure used for
auxiliary steaming. Then the unnecessary boilers should be se-
cured and fires again lighted under auxiliary steaming boilers.
During the period in which the steam pressure is dropping, about
one half hour, the auxiliary units are being run without any ex-
penditure of oil and, hence, over a half hour's port fuel allowance
is saved. Covering a period of almost daily operation this item
becomes of consequence.
Main engines.—The main engines of the Oklahoma being of the
reciprocating type, many of the economies effected will probably
not be of great interest to the majority of present day engineer
officers. However, the more important factors will be taken up.
Probably the greatest economy is made in the proper use of the
valve cut offs as determined by indicator diagrams, the object in
view being to obtain the greatest expansion of the steam consistent
with having a fairly well balanced, smooth running engine. Boiler
and high pressure chest steam pressures should be as nearly equal
as is consistent with the maneuvering requirements, to avoid the
loss entailed by the throttling process from main steam line to high
pressure valve chest.
Changes in speed should be made as gradual as possible in order
not to upset the thermal equilibrium of the plant, a point often lost


  p. 2116 (#1070)                      

2116
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
sight of. The captain at conn and deck watch officers figure most
prominently in this very important factor of economy, without
which good steaming is next to impossible. In formation, changes
in speed that are ordered so rapidly that they cannot possibly have
the desired effect on the ship’s headway, merely result in unstable
thermal conditions throughout the plant with a consequent reduc-
tion in the steaming score. These officers should bear in mind the
personal error ever present in stadimeter readings and should not
be too quick to order changes of speed on very small changes in
these readings.
R.pn
VERSUS
CURVE OF A. P. M
GALLONS OF OIL ALLOWED
V. S. S. OKLAHOMA
en tandends" or "Collóns om te oor "allones en mour " " " "
The bad effect of sudden changes in speed are cumulative. For
example, an increase in speed draws a greater weight of steam
from the boiler, and throws a greater load on the condensing
plant. Each of these factors must be met as quickly as possible
(if the plant is steaming in thermal equilibrium) by more feed
water and a speeding up of circulators and air pumps. The
greater weight of feed water being forced through the feed heat-
ers causes a lowering in feed temperature with a consequent
greater expenditure of oil to meet the increased demand for steam.


  p. 2117 (#1071)                      

1925)
Standing One
2117
The increased speed of auxiliaries causes a further demand for
steam, more feed water, lower feed temperature, and again a
greater oil expenditure. In the firerooms the greater weight of
oil going through the oil heaters lowers the oil temperature, and
this requires a greater expenditure to produce the steam. Could
these changes be made gradually, and the thermal equilibrium
maintained, the expenditure of oil would be little greater than the
difference in oil burned for the two speeds under steady steaming
conditions. For instance, if under steady steaming conditions for
six knots 350 gallons per hour are burned and under same con-
ditions for ten knots 950 gallons per hour are burned, then, if a
change is made from six to ten knots on an even hour and the
thermal equilibrium maintained, the fuel burned will be little
over 350 plus 950 or 1,300 gallons for the two hours. Whereas,
if the change is made suddenly the fuel used for the two hours
may be as high as 1,400 or 1,500 gallons. Sudden changes in
speed are the engineer's worst enemy. Avoid them!
Main condensing plant.–For economical operation of the main
propelling unit, this plant should be operated to give the vacuum
for which the propelling unit is designed, nothing more nor nothing
less. At high speeds where economy may become of secondary
importance, the condensing plant should be operated at as high
a vacuum as possible.
The main circulators should be run at such a speed that the
overboard discharge is about 8 degrees below the temperature of
steam corresponding to the desired vacuum. The thermometers
indicating the overboard discharge temperatures were placed as
near the circulating pump engine throttle as possible so that this
temperature could be maintained at all times. If the circulators are
of the centrifugal type and are not in such mechanical condition
that they may be run slowly enough to give this temperature, the
overboard discharge valve should be closed down until such tem-
perature obtains. Circulators, if so arranged, should be run cross-
connected up to as high speeds as the desired vacuum may be
retained.
Air pumps should be run as slowly as possible to maintain the
vacuum desired, when the overboard temperature has been cor-
rectly established. Keep all parts of steam side condensing unit
free of air leaks as these result in unnecessary work being done


  p. 2118 (#1072)                      

2118
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
by the air pumps. Vacuum gauges should be kept accurately
calibrated.
Main feed system.—Water of over one grain of chlorine per
gallon should never be allowed to enter any part of the main or
auxiliary feed system except in emergencies, and all water, whether
for filling boilers or for use as “make-up feed,” should enter the
system through the filter tank so that any grease or foreign matter
will be deposited on the loofah sponges.
The heat from every source of expanded and condensed steam
should be utilized to heat the feed water in the feed tank by lead-
ing drains to this tank. Some of these sources of heat include
evaporator drains, feed heater drains, ship's drain line, and such
other discharges from the traps, laundries, pressing shops, steri-
lizers, galleys, etc., that are not led to the ship's drain line. Never
lose the heat of steam already condensed by passing it into the
condenser, but rather lead it to the feed tank.
The auxiliary exhaust valves to main and auxiliary condenser
have become merely an auxiliary means of relieving excess pres-
sure (over fifteen pounds per square inch) from the auxiliary
exhaust line. The primary utilization of the auxiliary exhaust
is in the main engines and evaporators. In case these first two
means are not sufficient to keep the auxiliary exhaust below fif-
teen pounds per square inch, the feed heater drains are allowed
to blow through to the feed tank.
Feed tank temperatures as high as 200° F. are carried when
steady steaming conditions prevail without evidencing any trouble
with feed pumps, since the feed tanks are so located that there is
a head of twelve feet of water on the feed pump suction valves.
This high feed tank temperature permits of high feed temperature
with the use of very little auxiliary exhaust steam passing through
the feed heater; therefore, more auxiliary exhaust steam is avail-
able for main engines or evaporators.
Feed pressure is very carefully kept at about seventy-five
pounds above boiler pressure.
Evaporators.—Through the installation of the excellent type of
Lilly low pressure evaporators, a very economical operation for
making fresh water is possible..
An attempt is made to make enough fresh water while the ship
is operating at higher speeds, at which time there is plenty of back
pressure and it is not always possible to use it in the main engines,


  p. 2119 (#1073)                      

1925)
2119
Standing One
so that the evaporators need not be operated at the slower speeds
or in port when back pressure is low and is needed to keep the
feed temperature high. In case of necessity, in port or at slow
speeds at sea, when back pressure is low, only one set of evapo-
rators was operated since it was discovered that one set produced
almost as much water as two sets under these conditions. A sav-
ing in fuel resulted due to maintaining a higher feed temperature
and due to the fact that one set of evaporator auxiliaries was se-
cured. This procedure allows for regular periods of overhaul and
keeps the evaporators in excellent condition for the production of
good water.
Dynamos.—One of the greatest savings was accomplished
through the attempt to maintain a high load factor on the gener-
ators in use. Through cooperation with the deck force it was
possible to run only one generator for the greater part of the day
in port. Most ship's work involving the use of cranes, winches,
etc., was confined to a limited number of hours, without incon-
venience, during which time an extra machine was run and the
load factor consequently maintained high. At sea, one generator
was used during the greater part of the night. A special effort
was made at all times to keep such electrical units as blowers, and
so forth, not actually needed, cut out.
Intermittently used units.—The various officers concerned, offi-
cers of the deck, gunnery officer, and so forth, were impressed
with the necessity of immediately reporting to the engineer off-
cer of the watch when such units as heating system, deck pumps,
and air compressors were no longer needed.
Fresh water.—Every engineer officer must realize the constant
attention necessary to prevent the waste of fresh water and the
incessant striving to correct the very flagrant cases of wastage
which continually come to his notice. Where once fresh water
was considered a privilege, fresh water showers with no control
have come to be considered a rightful demand. The military view-
point of this question is often lost sight of: that is, that water
means oil, and oil used governs the cruising radius of the vessel
and costs money.
It is of the first importance that a man should be trained prop-
erly to use one of the greatest necessities of life on ship-board.
While no attempt is made to restrict water for any legitimate use,
it certainly seems fitting to keep a man from wasting water, just


  p. 2120 (#1074)                      

2120
Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
as one prevents him from throwing good rope or canvas over-
board.
For a long time a system of locked fresh water spigots had been
in use on this ship. Due to various additional spigots being in-
stalled in different parts of the ship, and over which there was no
direct supervision or control, this method was not considered
effective. Very early in the engineering year a "free spigot"
BOILER
SELECTION
CURVE
CURVE BASED ON FOLLOWING
CONDITIONS
(u Fuel of spa.94
21 Boilers here typical officiency art
ter & W bailars of 4000 sq ft. N.
o Oil burned per hour is that
alleerd by Engineering Competition rules for 100g
R. P. M.
C.W. styr USM
Approved
c. H. Dans
Note:
LT. Cord USN
Rather than use Sorgballers se
8 om
account or tool used to operate aeriliaries in
In added 'fireroom necossary for Sor a bailors
1 2 1
Anita , o grosis
policy was put into effect, with the supposition that this added
privilege and the instruction of the men by division officers would
tend to eliminate an apparent waste of fresh water.
This plan has evidently succeeded in its purpose as shown by
the gradual reduction from month to month in water expenditure
per capita. However, it is necessary continually to bring this im-
portant item to the attention of all hands, and to serve this purpose
a daily curve of water expended per capita was posted on the
bulletin board.


  p. 2121 (#1075)                      

1925]
2121
Standing One
One of the greatest savings of water can be accomplished by
placing the third rinse of the laundry in tanks for use of the entire
ship's company for washing paintwork, and so forth.
The saving of water in "make-up feed” has been touched upon
under "Satisfactory Mechanical Condition of Machinery.” A
further saving has been made by leading drains from pumps and
steam seals to a small tank, which can be periodically emptied into
the feed tank. The extraordinary low "make-up feed” of the
Oklahoma has been made possible by the elimination of leaks in
flanges, joints, stuffing boxes, and so forth, throughout the plant.
"Make-up feed” is one item on which one cannot depend upon a
navy yard overhaul to help out the ship's standing. Constant
striving to prevent even the smallest leaks is necessary.
Inspections. Any method of operation without an efficient sys-
tem of follow-up must eventually deteriorate. To prevent this, an
arrangement in port was made whereby the senior engineer officer
of the watch, junior officer of the watch, and the three chief petty
officers of the watch made thorough inspections each watch and at
different times during the watch. A record was made of de-
ficiencies found and steps were taken to correct the same immedi-
ately. These reports of deficiencies formed a basis of discussion
at various conferences and their cause was then entirely elimi-
nated.
Analysis.-A daily analysis sheet used by the Pennsylvania in
port was used on this ship after a few additions and changes had
been made, such as a kilowatt hour curve plotted along with the
fuel consumption curve. It was possible to detect faulty oper-
ation from these combined curves together with the itemized ma-
chinery in operation.
At sea, a careful check was made to see that all log entries were
correct and actually represented conditions. It was then possible
to repeat conditions found to be good practice.
MORALE
Last, but probably the most important of all, is morale, for
without esprit de corps neither mechanical perfection nor efficient
operation can be obtained. A proper spirit was fostered by:
1. Instruction and training.
2. Privileges.


  p. 2122 (#1076)                      

2122
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
3. Intership competition.
4. Internal competition.
Instruction and training.-Men were instructed at their stations
while under operating conditions. The various phases of the re-
lation of their job to the whole plant was continually pointed out.
The interest of the men was constantly stimulated by giving them
engineering information as rapidly as they assimilated it. This
method of instruction required more time and patience but is con-
sidered more effective than holding routine “school.” In this way
"school” was not delegated to a junior officer who at times might
not be intensely interested in, or thoroughly familiar with, his
subject. It was rather delegated to all officers, whose singleness
of procedure and point of endeavor was assured by having numer-
ous short conferences of engineer officers at which all plans of
operation and procedure were discussed and decided upon. In-
struction of men becomes an easier task if they are made to be-
lieve that the officers have an honest interest in imparting knowl-
edge to them and are not merely conducting "school" to fill in
time.
To assist those who were especially desirous of obtaining more
information, extracts of the Bureau of Engineering Manual in
the form of pamphlets were issued weekly to the men whether
they wanted them or not, and thus circulated so that each man had
an opportunity to study them all.
When a problem presented itself that involved the entire engi-
neers' force as well as any set of individuals, the complete situ-
ation was given full publicity so that the men could realize the
object in view and aid in the solution of it. This did away with
the issuing of seemingly routine orders and instructions and
brought many good suggestions from the men.
Men have actually stated that under this system they have
learned more engineering in the eight months it has been in effect
than in as many as six years previous engineering service.
Privileges.—On account of the numerous instances of repairs
being made outside of regular working hours, because of the
great amount of overhaul necessary to attain satisfactory mechani-
cal condition, and on account of the lack of overhaul periods, par-
ticular consideration was given the men in the matter of special
liberty.


  p. 2123 (#1077)                      

. 1925)
2123
Standing One
The men turned to with a will as long as there was work to be
done, no matter what the time, because they always knew that
they would not be forgotten during slack times. Furthermore,
men were given leave as much as possible, looking ahead to the
usual navy yard leave period, when, due to the force of circum-
stances, the leave of the engineer force is very often curtailed in
order to finish up overhaul work.
Even though these special considerations were made, the
strictest discipline was maintained at all times to such an extent
that the engineer divisions were set up as an example for the rest
of the ship's company to follow. A spirit of pride and of well
being and well doing pervaded these divisions.
Intership competition.-It was noted at the beginning of the
engineering year that in spite of the individual ability of a great
many men, there was no concerted effort toward making the ship
stand out over others. By means of publishing the competitive
engineering scores of the battleships and by thoroughly instructing
the men as to the rules and the real reason for engineering com-
petition, a desire to win was created. The force becomes more of
a unit with a singleness of purpose.
No attempt was made to restrict any conveniences in any man-
ner whatsoever, thus insuring the eventual cooperation of the en-
tire ship's force. As stated previously a "free spigot" water policy
was inaugurated and fresh water showers were installed. The
question of necessity of heat was decided by the executive officer
and in this manner there could be no dissatisfaction with the en-
gineer department. It was continually dwelt upon that this com-
petition must be entirely on an engineering basis. .
Internal competition.—When it was thought possible that the
interest in intership competition might be waning by reason of the
high standing of the vessel, an internal competition between
watches was started and produced amazing results. Whereas, a
score of 105 for a watch had been considered satisfactory, a
score as high as 215 for four hours was made. This latter, of
course, was made possible by ideal steaming conditions.
Scores were computed hourly, while underway, and were for-
warded to the various units of the engineer department and also
to the officer of the deck, whose cooperation was thereby invited.
At the end of a watch, the score for the watch was computed and
posted on a large blackboard. The scores for the individual offi-


  p. 2124 (#1078)                      

2124
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings (Nov.
cers and men were totalled from day to day for each month. This
stimulated interest upon the calculation of scores for the new
month, and insured a continual keen competitive spirit which at
times became so manifest that it became necessary to establish
rules for such routine procedure as pumping of bilges, blowing
strainers, and so forth.
CONCLUSION
The advances made in the past few years in economy on the
Oklahoma and other capital ships have been so great that it would
seem that a high limit must soon be reached. However, it is be-
lieved that if the installation of metering and measuring devices,
such as steam flow meters, stroke and revolution counters, weigh-
ing apparatus, and so forth, was more encouraged and brought
more to the attention of operating personnel that even greater
advances in economy and consequent reduction in the navy fuel
bill, or, what is more to be desired, a greater radius of activity for
the same fuel bill, can and would be effected.
Paying concerns such as power plants, manufacturing plants,
and so forth, with fuel bills much less than the Navy do not con-
sider operation of any part of the plant without insuring economi-
cal operation of the unit as soon as possible. Large commercial
plants have adopted and have in successful operation a reliable
means of metering the steam flow in order that an immediate de-
termination may be made of the efficiency of any unit which may
be cut in and immediately correct any deficiencies before any
great loss of fuel results. In the Navy the efficiency of a certain
method or unit can be determined only after comparisons of
periods of like conditions of operation which, at the best, stretch
over a long period of time, due to the varied requirements of the
service and usually result in a wastage of fuel while the compari-
sons are being made, or may result in an inaccurate conclusion of
the change in procedure.


  p. 2125 (#1079)                      

POST-TREATY NAVAL DESIGN
By HECTOR C. BYWATER AND MAURICE PRENDERGAST
NDER the Washington Naval Treaty, France is allowed a
battle fleet with an aggregate displacement of 175,000 tons,
or exactly one third of the total allotted to the British Em-
pire and the United States, respectively. Italy, also, is granted a
battle fleet of 175,000 tons. In these two facts we find a clue to
the intense dislike with which the treaty is regarded by French-
men at large. The tonnage allotment they consider ridiculous in
view of the heavy responsibilities devolving upon their navy,
which is charged not only with the defense of a long coast line
fronting on two seas and of an extensive colonial empire, but
with the security of a line of communications that would be abso-
lutely vital in wartime. Still more bitterly do they resent the for-
mal recognition of Italy as a sea power of the same rank as
France. This assumption of equality in maritime interests and
prestige between the two nations is wholly at variance with the
plain facts of the case, to say nothing of history or tradition.
France would never have accepted it but for the conviction of her
naval experts that the battleship has ceased to be the key factor
in naval strength.
Not for a moment, however, would she agree to extend the ex-
isting battleship ratio to those lighter craft which, in the judgment
of all but a small minority of her active sea officers, are the only in-
struments capable of achieving decisive results in the naval combats
of tomorrow. As her attitude on this point is common knowledge,
it has probably had a great deal to do with the postponement of
the second limitation conference which was to have been sum-
moned for the purpose of regulating non-capital naval armaments.
Six months after the signing of the treaty France had to de-
plore the loss of one of the only seven dreadnaughts she possessed,
the battleship France being wrecked in Quiberon Bay in August,
1922. Now the treaty provides that “in case of loss or accidental
destruction of capital ships or aircraft carriers they may immedi-


  p. 2126 (#1080)                      

2126
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ately be replaced by new construction, subject to the tonnage
limits prescribed. ...." France, therefore, was and still is at
liberty to build a 35,000-ton battleship should she so desire, and in
January, 1927, she will be free to lay down a second ship of the
same type. Thus, in a little more than a year from now she will
have a margin of 70,000 tons for new armoured construction. A
certain significance attaches to this in view of a footnote to the
French replacement table in the treaty, stating that “France ex-
pressly reserves the right of employing the capital ship tonnage
allotment as she may consider advisable, subject solely to the
limitations that the displacement of individual ships should not
surpass 35,000 tons, and that the total capital ship tonnage should
keep within the limits imposed by the present treaty."
The French delegates who appended this footnote did so of set
purpose. While they did not believe in the utility of huge battle-
ships such as the British Nelson and Rodney, they foresaw the
possible value of armoured ships which, although much inferior in
tonnage and fighting power to these mastodons, would yet be able
to make short work of the largest “auxiliary" craft authorized by
the treaty: that is, the 10,000-ton cruiser.
This idea has since taken definite shape. French naval con-
structors have completed plans for a 17,500-ton croiseur de combat
which, if it is built, cannot fail to modify very drastically the
present standards of strength in auxiliary ships. Full particulars
of the design have not been released, but the French service jour-
nals have published its salient features. Briefly, the type repre-
sents a small battle cruiser, with a speed of 34 knots, its vitals
protected by armour sufficiently strong to keep out all projectiles
save those of major calibre, and mounting a battery of eight
12-inch guns.
The main armament is disposed in two quadruple turrets eche-
lonned amidships, with a (nominal) end-on discharge of four to
six guns and a full broadside of eight over a somewhat restricted
field of fire before and abaft the beam. The four-gun turrets,
which are 29/2 feet wide, are supported on an armoured redoubt,
especially strengthened to resist the stresses set up by rapid
salvos fired at an elevation of 30 or 35 degrees. The guns them-
selves are of a new high-velocity model, unofficially reported to be
fifty-five calibres in length, loading shells of 970 pounds weight.
Their range at extreme elevation should not be less than 33,000


  p. 2127 (#1081)                      

1925]
2127
Post Treaty Naval Design
yards. The machinery would consist of geared turbines and oil-
fired boilers—the uptakes leading into a single smokestack for
high speeds, and a Diesel plant for cruising speed. Thanks to the
grouping of the big guns amidships, ample space would be left
forward and aft for flight decks and aviation equipment. The
secondary battery would be composed of rapid-fire guns on
mountings equally adapted to high-angle or flat-trajectory fire.
No mention is made of a torpedo armament, or mine-planting
gear, but eight aeroplanes are to be carried.
Some of the ablest French critics are loud in their praise of
the new type. One such vessel would be of incomparably greater
value, both strategically and tactically, than two cruisers of the
10,000-ton class, they maintain. Unless these could show a clean
pair of heels they would infallibly be destroyed by salvos of
12-inch shells, out-ranging their 8-inch batteries by many thousand
yards, and excepting in perfectly smooth water the larger ship
could steam faster that smaller ones of the same legend speed.
Even at closer range the 17,500-ton cruiser, with its vital parts cov-
ered with thick armour, would have little to fear from 8-inch pro-
jectiles, while its own heavier artillery would soon destroy the
lightly-armoured antagonists. Under normal conditions one ship
of this type ought to be more than a match for two cruisers of the
10,000-ton class. If this premise is granted, the strategic value
of the design becomes self-evident.
Let us suppose that one of the new croiseurs de combat—which
we may name the Indomptable—is ready for service on the out-
break of a war with Great Britain. The ship is at Brest, and her
commander is ordered to make a cruise in the South Atlantic,
where British cruisers, including several of the 10,000-ton County
class and many of smaller tonnage, are patrolling the trade routés.
Whether the departure of the Indomptable becomes known to the
British authorities does not seriously matter. Once she has reached
the open sea her mission will already be half fulfilled. Arriving
on the scene of operations she chases and sinks one or more of
the British cruisers which are simply helpless prey. Her appear-
ance instantly dislocates the system of commerce defense in that
area. A warning is flashed to all British merchantmen to give
the danger zone a wide berth. Ships already at sea must look
after themselves; ships in port are ordered to remain there until
the situation is rectified. But, scarcely have these orders been


  p. 2128 (#1082)                      

2128
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings (Nov.
issued when the Indomptable appears in West Indian waters,
where she sends another British cruiser to the bottom and proceeds
to raid shipping with dire effect.
Meanwhile, the British Admiralty has been devising counter-
measures. In view of her powerful armament, the only vessels
capable of dealing with the raider are capital ships ; but battleships
are two slow, and even the four battle cruisers are inferior to the
Indomptable by 2 or 3 knots. Still, something must be left to
chance; so the Hood, Renown, and Repulse are ordered to sweep
the Atlantic routes, while the slower Tiger is held in reserve lest
the ubiquitous enemy appear in some new and unexpected quarter.
Coincidentally, steps are taken to organise merchant convoys under
the guard of old battleships of the Iron Duke class and sub-
marines. But all of these arrangements take time; heavy losses
are being incurred by British trade, several cruisers have been
sunk, and the effect of this interruption to the steady flow of im-
ports is making itself felt in the British Isles.
One day the Renown, cruising to the southeast of Bermuda,
catches a glimpse of the quarry. Visibility is high, and the
British ship works up to full speed in an effort to get within
range. But, the Indomptable is not to be caught so easily. Gradu-
ally she draws away, and, as a parting insult, straddles her pur-
suer with 12-inch salvos at a range of seventeen miles, to which
the Renown is unable to reply.
When next heard of, the French ship is back at Brest. She has
been at sea eight weeks, during which time she has sunk four
cruisers and a score of merchantmen, spreading alarm over the
greater part of the Atlantic. She has twice taken in oil from
captured tankers, and could have remained at large for a longer
period but that her bottom is getting foul and requires docking.
Battle cruisers, submarines, and aircraft have vainly sought to
bring her to book. Soon she will begin a second war cruise, the
results of which are awaited with painful anxiety in British naval
circles. A sister ship has just been completed at Toulon, and
while the Indomptable repeats her operations in the Atlantic, this
second vessel may appear off the Cape or in the Indian Ocean,
where there is not a single British ship strong enough to face her.
The situation thus pictured might well arise if France built
even two or three 17,500-ton ships of the type indicated. To all
existing cruisers they would stand in the same relationship as the


  p. 2129 (#1083)                      

1925)
Post Treaty Naval Design
2129
Dreadnought stood to the pre-dreadnought. Their advent would
materially reduce the relative value of the 10,000-ton “treaty"
cruiser, the métier of which has never been clearly defined. As
we have seen, France has good legal warrant for laying down two
Indomptables at once, and a second pair in 1927. Generally
speaking, it is bad policy to build armoured ships inferior in fight-
ing power to contemporary capital ships, but in this instance the
circumstances are quite exceptional, and the Indomptable design
offers a tempting solution for the new problems of strategy and
tactics which have developed out of the Washington Treaty.
At the moment of writing the French Ministry of Marine has
not come to a decision in the matter. The 17,500-ton croiseur de
combat is, as yet, only a paper project, which may or may not ma-
terialize. But, the chances are that it will, in which case other powers
may find it expedient to revise their own shipbuilding plans lest
they be one day confronted with the situation depicted above.
Turning to the technical aspect of the matter, it is unnecessary
to remind students of naval development that there is nothing
really new in the Indomptable design. To misquote a Spanish
proverb: "It is only an old dog with a new collar.” Almost fifty
years ago Benedetto Brin planned the Italia and Lepanto, of which
the new Indomptable design is simply a modern replica.
The Lepanto-Indomptable idea is one that has cropped up more
than once in naval architecture, withered, and blossomed again.
Old age killed off the Lepanto family, and the notions inspiring
their design appeared to be dead. But they were not; they were
only dormant, and achieved a strange resurrection in "Fisher's
Freaks"—the three Glorious type cruisers. The principle of the
three designs—Lepanto, Glorious, Indomptable-aims at a vessel
of large size, heavily armed, lightly armoured, very fast, which
can hunt down and devour the lesser cruiser species, and also act
as a corsair de luxe.
As a destroyer of the "ten-thousand-tonner" treaty type cruiser,
could an Indomptable justify itself? To this query we may reply
in the Socratic manner by propounding another. Why did the
French choose 17,500 tons as displacement and eight 12-inch guns
as the main battery? The answer is obvious and may be put into
six words: the Battle of the Falkland Islands. When one reduces
the two Scharnhorsts to "standard displacement”-deducting their
fuel and reserve feed water weights—those two armoured cruis-
ers of von Spee's come down to much the same category as the


  p. 2130 (#1084)                      

2130
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
treaty cruiser type: about 10,000 tons, armed with eight guns of
close on 8-inch calibre. There is, of course, to knots disparity in
speed between Sturdee's victims and the modern treaty cruiser,
but that disparity represents ten years' intensive progress in war-
ship machinery. Again, at the Dogger Bank battle, the other
German 8-inch gunned cruiser, Blücher, simply could not live
when put under fire by British battle cruisers. Given high visi-
bility and a clear run, there is every probability that a fight be-
tween Indomptables and treaty cruisers would end much as did
the Sturdee-von Spee duel—with the decks of the 10,000-tonners
blown out by plunging salvos. In short, the French are out to
"Falkland” the treaty cruisers.
The revival of the echelonned turret disposition is, of course,
the interesting thing in the French plan. It is a bad pattern of
gun distribution, and its appearance in capital ship design is usu-
ally a tacit admission that, for the moment, attack has mastered
defense. The main gun positions have to be retracted from the
ends to the centre of the hull so that they can be enclosed in a
small and very heavily armoured redoubt. In modern design, it
is the necessity of providing multiple heavy anti-bomb (and anti-
plunging salvo) decks, more than stiffening of vertical side pro-
tection, which has led to the contraction of main gun positions
within narrow spaces.
In practice, the arcs of fire for echelonned turrets are far less
than the arcs of training appearing in the paper design. Ahead
or astern, guns cannot be fired until the turret trained 15 to 20
degrees outboard. Any attempts to fire at angles closer inboard
simply results in damage to hull side. As for athwartship fire,
it is a snare and a delusion. The British battleships Hercules and
Colossus are said to have got off a few full (10-gun) salvoes in
the Battle of Jutland, the port turret firing directly across the
deck. The result was that the deck—although especially stiffened
against blast effect-sagged very badly. At high elevation, the
French Indomptable might safely indulge in cross-deck fire, but
not at angles of elevation less than about 15 degrees.
Below decks, there is the disadvantage that the magazines of
echelonned turrets are brought into the outboard spaces, close to
the skin of the hull, where the full impact of sub-surface ex-
plosion will be felt. No doubt the French ship will be bulged, or
*For example: the old British Inflexible, with her 24-inch belt.


  p. 2131 (#1085)                      

1925)
21ŽI
1. Post Treaty Naval Design
have the Ferrati type of multiple hull protection. None the less,
in internal sub-surface hull protection safety varies as the square
of the distance from the outer skin. A magazine set thirty feet
inboard is 800 times safer than one set ten feet inboard.
With echelonned turrets, the mix-up with the machinery spaces
is a serious complication. The usual method is to fill in the
counter-echelon spaces by placing engine or boiler rooms abeam
of the magazines. To place heat generators cheek by jowl with
powder stores is not conducive to stability of propellants—even
when magazine refrigeration is used.
It remains to consider why the French have taken up the echelon
distribution of main guns for this projected battle cruiser—a lay-
out of the cardinal battery which has never before figured in a
French capital ship. What is more, it is a distribution of guns
which has always been discarded after a brief trial by the British
Navy. For example, during the eighties it was adopted for In-
flexible, Ajax, Neptune, and so forth, and then abandoned. It
was revived in 1905-10 in Invincible, Indefatigable, and Neptune,
and again dropped.
One answer, and the most probable one, is the point outlined
above, that turrets in echelon permit defensive hull armouring to be
reduced in area and intensified in thickness of plating. But there
is yet another answer: the French may have accepted the echelon,
with all of its inherent disadvantages, because they wish to clear
the ends of the hull for flight decks, lifts, and large hangars.
. An Irishman once defined a net as “a lot of holes tied together
with string.” Nonsense it is, of course, but taken as a definition, it
is a far more lucid, vivid, and compact explanation than Dr.
Johnson's famous attempt to define a net in his dictionary. When
one comes to the treaty definition of an aircraft carrier, one is
left wondering who composed it. Possibly it was that famous
contributor to the Eatanswill Gazette, who wrote the article on
"Chinese Metaphysics.” When Mr. Pickwick expressed incre-
dulity that an essay could be written for a newspaper on so ab-
struse a subject, Mr. Pott, the editor, impressively explained :
“My dear sir, you read up China in the encyclopædia, then meta-
physics, and then combine the two subjects." The draftsman of
that definition in the treaty possibly looked up "aircraft" in the
dictionary, then “carrier" and, like Mr. Pott's contributor, com-
bined the two definitions ; for it consists of two parts, which may


  p. 2132 (#1086)                      

2132 U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
(Nov.
be two separate definitions, or a single definition divided into two
co-related and complementary sub-definitions. The result, either
way, is not unlike the Irishman's definition of a net-nonsensical
sense, a witty bouleversement of terms. One cannot make out
whether the treaty definition of an aircraft carrier is sense, half-
sense, or nonsense.
And what is this priceless definition, that does not define any-
thing in distinct outline but rather blurs the picture?
It defines an aircraft carrier as a "naval vessel of war designed
for the specific and exclusive purpose of carrying aircraft. It
must be so constructed that aircraft can be launched therefrom
and landed thereon. ...." Here we have three separate func-
tions detailed: (a) the carrying of aircraft, (b) the launching of
aircraft from the carrying vessel's deck, and (c) the landing of
aircraft on the deck; but we are not told if any one, any two, or
all three functions, when carried out, convert the executant vessel
into an aircraft carrier. For example, a large vessel of a semi-
cargo type is designed for carrying fifty aircraft in knock-down
condition and, maybe, with plant for rapid assembly. She is “de-
signed for the sole and exclusive use of carrying aircraft," but
there is no provision for flying-off or landing. Is she an aircraft
carrier within the meaning of the act? But much more important
is the question of a vessel akin to H.M.S. Furious in 1917. At
that time, the British cruiser had a hangar, lift and flying-off deck
forward and a single 18-inch gun aft; there was no provision made
for landing aircraft on her deck. Here two of the attributes laid
down by the treaty are fulfilled—the carrying of aircraft, and the
launching from the deck; but the third condition_landing on the
deck—is not complied with. Was the Furious, or would a ship on
the lines of the Furious, be an aircraft carrier? The new French
battle cruiser design is very much on all fours with the 1917
Furious design. If the Furious of 1917 was not an aircraft car-
rier, then the French can build their new vessel and be within the
law. But, if the Furious of 1917 was an aircraft carrier, then the
French seem to be stretching the treaty in arming such a vessel
with guns larger than 8-inch calibre.
Of course one can turn to the "sole and exclusive purpose of
carrying aircraft” clause, but this is the weakest part of the whole
definition, for it is a definition that raises no standard. Who, or
what, is to determine "sole and exclusive use"? We are not told.


  p. 2133 (#1087)                      

1925]
2133
Post Treaty Naval Design
The French are stated to have designed the Indomptable type to
carry eight aeroplanes; they could just as well have given the ves-
sel eighteen. Even if they had put eighty aircraft into the design,
they could have done so legally; for, being a battle cruiser, armed
with 12-inch guns, the ship is not designed for the "sole and ex-
clusive purpose of carrying aircraft.” The way in which the
question of aircraft tonnage has been safe-guarded in the treaty
is truly wonderful. Firstly, you may build vessels carrying
twenty to thirty aircraft, launching such aircraft from and landing
them on their decks; but if such vessels are of 9,999 tons dis-
placement or less, then they are not "aircraft carriers.” From
10,000 up to 27,000 tons standard displacement, you can build
vessels which are treaty-defined porte-avions. Above 27,000 tons,
it appears that you can borrow from your capital ship replacement
tonnage, build vessels armed with one 16-inch (or an agglomera-
tion of lesser calibres down to 8-inch) and load them up with
aircraft. If anyone objects, you can say, “Oh, those are not air-
craft carriers—they are not designed for the sole and exclusive
purpose of carrying aircraft. They are capital ships carrying
aircraft in an auxiliary sense." No one can now validly object to
any type of war vessel carrying one, two, or more aeroplanes; the
treaty has nowhere defined the number of aircraft which may or
may not be carried. Dreadnoughts, battle-cruisers, cruisers, light
cruisers, destroyers, and even a submarine have carried aircraft,
and some of these types have launched their machines into flight
from their decks. As a village politician remarked recently, “This
is a bit too thick ; it's the thin edge of the wedge!" The right of
war vessels to carry aircraft and launch them from their decks has
been conceded by custom and is not denied by the treaty. No limit
is imposed on the number of aircraft to be carried. Therefore
the French may, if they wish, build the Indomptable, give her
eight large guns and as many aeroplanes as she can conveniently
carry, and no one can object to such a course being pursued. From
what the treaty definition says, it would appear that the presence
of a landing deck and net is about the only criterion by which one
can determine the treaty-defined carrier; for, as we have argued
above: (a) all warships may carry aircraft to any number they
please; (b) they can launch such aircraft from their decks; but
if they land such aircraft on their decks, then the three conditions
of the treaty definition are complied with and the ship becomes


  p. 2134 (#1088)                      

2134
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
an "aircraft carrier.” If seaplanes take the water alongside and
are hoisted inboard, the third "landing deck” function can be
evaded. Detachable or retracting undercarriages enable aero-
planes to fly off a deck and land in the water.
If the French ever build vessels of the described type, other
powers may retaliate in kind by building super-Indomptables. In
lieu of constructing two capital ships of 35,000 tons, they might
build three vessels of 23,333 tons apiece, armed with, say, six
13.5-inch guns and having a speed of 36 knots. Italy might do
this, inasmuch as she, like France, has reserved the right to use
her allotment of capital ship tonnage in any manner she pleases.
Whether the other powers might do so is a debatable point; they
appear to have tied themselves down to a set time-table of replace-
ments by 35,000-ton ships only.
Even so, the 35,000-ton capital ship could be made into a de-
stroyer of Indomptables. When the Washington Conference as-
sembled, Great Britain had designed and ordered the four modified
Hoods. When the original draft of the treaty was broadcast to
the world, British naval designers started to work out a series
of plans for reducing the modified Hoods by about 8,000 tons, so
that their displacement would come inside the new legal limit of
35,000 tons standard displacement. Among these tentative plans
was one in which the battle cruiser speed and massive post-Jutland
protection of the original design were retained unaltered, and the
8,000-tons cut was made out of the armament weight. It was
found that this reduced vessel could only carry a battery of 12-inch
guns, or, at the best, 13.5-inch. Such a type of vessel might be
called into existence as a contre-Indomptable species or second-
class capital ship. The "Thurston Design B," of Brassey's Annual
for 1923-24, shows another type of vessel, fast (30 knots), power-
fully armed (six 16-inch in two triple turrets), and very heavily
defended (thirteen-inch to seven-inch armour on waterline, five-
inch decks, fourteen-inch to ten-inch on main gun positions). Ad-
mitted that this design has not speed enough to deal with a 34-knot
Indomptable, but if some sacrifices were made in armament and
protection, the horsepower might be raised and speed enlarged to
35 knots. Within the maximum quota of displacement allowed by
the treaty, it should be possible to create a vessel (a) armed with
six 14-inch or nine 12-inch guns, (b) driven at 36 to 37 knots with
engines of 240,000 S.H.P., and (c) protected by eleven- to five-


  p. 2135 (#1089)                      

1925)
2135
Post Treaty Naval Design
inch waterline armour, five-inch decks, and twelve- to nine-inch
gun positions. The 14-inch (or 13.5-inch long calibre) armament
is preferable, for with 35 degrees elevation the 12-inch guns of
the Indomptable would be outranged by several thousand yards.
True, the armouring of this type of ship would leave something
to be desired, but it must be remembered that, saving only the
Hood, no post-Jutland type of capital ship armed with 15-inch or
16-inch guns has a speed of over 23 knots. With 10 to 12 knots
advantage in speed, the Indomptable and contre-Indomptable
types could keep out of range of the post-Jutland ships, so that
there is no need for the new battle cruisers to be heavily armoured.
Astonishment, amusement, and even derision are often expressed
at the instability of French naval policy. It should always be re-
membered, however, that France has a complex naval problem
with which to deal. To the west she faces the expanses of the
Atlantic; to the south her sea frontier is within the enclosed
waters of the Mediterranean; to the north she has her side of the
Channel to defend. Her policy, like her scheme of naval com-
mand, is cloven in twain. The “Blue Water” school wants battle-
ships and battle cruisers; the Jeune Ecole demands large numbers
of small and very speedy ships. The present French scheme of
naval policy is based on the necessity of maintaining communi-
cations between Southern France and the Northern African Colo-
nies. The great innovation is the tripartite division of national
defence into three sections in place of the old bisection into land
naval forces. The 1922 organisation provides for: (a) the sea-
going fleet, a striking force endowed with offensive properties;
(b) the frontiers maritime, a new “liaison” scheme, drawing its
"elements”? from sea, land, and air forces; and (c) the land forces
proper. The Indomptable type of battle cruiser appears to be a
compromise which would be acceptable to all schools of 'naval
opinion in France. By the “Blue Water” school she would be ap-
proved as a type of capital ship excellently suited for operations
in the Mediterranean. The Jeune Ecole—which places commerce
destruction among the first of its tenets—would accept the design
* NOTE: The “elements” are comprised of :second class submarines,
mine layers and sweepers, patrol craft-aircraft, super-range guns, and
guns on mobile land mounts handled by a specialist coast defence force-
marines-military detachments. Such naval craft as are required are pro-
vided for by special defense estimates, entirely distinct from the navy esti-
mates of the 1922 navy law.


  p. 2136 (#1090)                      

2136
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
enthusiastically, because it is that type of "sea-hawk” favored by
Captain Castex-a formidable corsair capable of carrying out
long-distance and long-period raids against shipping. Both sides
would acclaim the advent of a vessel which, at the same time,
would be capital ship in the Mediterranean and corsair in the
Atlantic.
Was the advent of the Dreadnaught type a stroke of genius or
a piece of mistaken megalomania ? It dominated the capital ship
types but it was also domineering; it was a case of Aut Cesar, aut
nullus—Dreadnaught or nothing. It crushed the second-class bat-
tleship and the coastal defense type of armoured ship out of ex-
istence. But submarines, mines, and aircraft have made enclosed
seas too dangerous for goliath ships of the line, small in total
numbers, huge in individual size.
Has the time not come when we can consider the creation of a
a second-class capital ship, of moderate size, high in speed, and
more numerous in numbers—a type suited for operations in the
Mediterranean, Baltic, North Sea, and so forth? The super-
dreadnought would still be rector of the oceans, and, in emergency,
might venture into the enclosed seas to support the new second-
class capital ships. On these grounds, the French concept of a
new capital ship type, such as the Indomptable, seems funda-
mentally sound.
Since 1870, France's chief pre-occupation has been the defence
of her land frontiers—l'armée est archiprêtre. If, under a se-
curity pact, France's land frontiers were guaranteed, her land
defences would no longer be her chief anxiety. She would prob-
ably turn to colonial development, and colonial development always
means, as Mahan has shown, naval expansion. But this argument
will not hold good—you cannot create colonies with a dwindling
population. It is only nations too plentifully provided with flesh
and blood that possess the urge for overseas expansion. Italy as
a colonizer is a greater potential force than France. It will be
Italy that will seek expansion in the future, and probably in
Northern Africa at the expense of France.
What would be the position of Italy if France built two In-
domptables? Could Italy claim the right to build two equivalent
vessels as replacements for the lost Leonardo da Vinci? We pause
here to ask why the authors of the Washington Treaty included
the Leonardo da Vinci as an effective capital ship? Everyone


  p. 2137 (#1091)                      

1925)
Post Treaty Naval Design
2137
knows she blew up during the war, sank in a capsized position,
was refloated and re-capsized, but was found beyond repair. As
a fighting ship, she was about as valuable as the wreck of the
Maine, in Havana harbour. The Leonardo da Vinci was de-
stroyed before the treaty—was included in the treaty—and
scrapped after the treaty was signed. Could replacement tonnage
be lawfully claimed on account of her loss? So long as France
does not replace the lost battleship France, Italy may not replace
the Leonardo da Vinci. But if France orders two 17,500-ton
battle cruisers as compensating tonnage for a capital ship lost,
Italy may retaliate in kind. Britain could not ignore the presence
in the Mediterranean of four very fast and powerful battle cruis-
ers of a new type. She might claim the right to commence in
1931-32 seven ships of 20,000 tons in place of the four 35,000-ton
capital ships licensed by the treaty. Ensuing political permuta-
tions, combinations, and conferences we will not attempt to en-
visage.
To sum up:
1. The French design is not new—it is a réchauffé of Brin's
Italia design.
2. The echelon turret arrangement is poor; it can only be justi-
fied because it solves protection problems. It may also be adopted
so that convenient flight decks can be fitted in. If the latter sur-
mise is true, the question arises :
3. Are the French going to build an aircraft carrier with battle
cruiser armament? The treaty is so confused and vague on air-
craft carrier definition that they may attempt to do so, and get
away with it.
4. An experiment in a second-class capital ship type is worth
while. Such a type could (a) operate in enclosed seas, (b) carry
out oceanic commerce raids, (c) kill off the 10,000-tonner tribe,
as Sturdee's Indomitables killed off the Scharnhorsts.
5. Italy might retaliate by building similar ships and Britain
would then be forced into building vessels of the same general
design. To speculate on contemporary American and Japanese
action in the contingency thus forecast would carry this discussion
to an inordinate length.


  p. 2138 (#1092)                      

VEST POCKET BALLISTICS
By LIEUTENANT W. L. WRIGHT, U. S. Navy
THE following equations to the trajectory of the projectile
were developed with the hope of obtaining something ex-
pressed in the simplest terms and of a wide range of appli-
cation. Auxiliary tables are not required. The equations will
give a close approximation of the performance of a long-point,
high velocity projectile whose weight is in the neighborhood of
lbs. and velocity above 2500 f.s. They are not to be used where
more exact information is available but should not develop errors
in excess of 5 per cent. It is thought that the equations may prove
of especial interest in connection with high angle fire. It will be
noted that at an angle of elevation of 45° the sine term drops out
of the equation for range, giving a very simple expression for the
maximum range.
The equations follow :
R=2.6 V 2% sin1.39d™ 20
R =2.6 V d%
Y=R tano
T=.5 Y%
Where:
R=horizontal range in yards.
Y=maximum ordinate in feet.
T=time of flight in seconds.
V=muzzle velocity in feet per second.
p=angle of elevation.
d=diameter of projectile in inches.


  p. 2139 (#1093)                      

THE NAVIGATOR'S NOTEBOOK
By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER P. V. H. WEEMS, U. S. Navy
INSPECTIONS of the navigator's notebook, or work book, on
various ships reveal the fact that the notes, data, and forms
are frequently poorly arranged and that the investment of a
little time and thought in the arrangement of the work would give
big returns in accuracy, brevity, clearness, compactness, and com-
pleteness. The possible arrangement of the work in a notebook is
subject to endless variation; perhaps the best arrangement has not
been devised. Furthermore, experienced navigators, by years of
experience, have usually arrived at their own systems and wrinkles.
However, since any system is better than no system, these notes
are made with the hope of giving the young navigator a short cut
to a satisfactory arrangement of his work.
The principal point to consider in the arrangement of the note-
book is the form for the lines of positions. To save time, a most
important consideration aboard ships with high speed, duplication
must be avoided and paper work reduced to a minimum. Printed
forms save the time and trouble of writing them out, but the bind-
ing or pasting in of these forms is some trouble, and the work is
not arranged compactly or in sequence. .
The ideal form for a line of position would be one that could
be used for any heavenly body, arranged vertically so that when
written once it would suffice for a double page or for the entire
book. This cannot be done entirely, yet with a slight change in the
usual arrangement, a big step in the right direction can be made.
The work for finding the hour angle is done in one column. The
declination and latitude, referring to the haversine formula, might
conveniently be written in the same column with the time. Now,
instead of writing the log functions of t, dec. and latitude off to
the right as we learned in the study of logarithms, they might
with equal facility be written in the same vertical column below
the other work. This will now bring the computed altitude in the
same vertical column, and by putting the sextant altitude with its
corrections there, and the altitude difference and azimuth last, the


  p. 2140 (#1094)                      

2140
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings [Nov.
entire form may be put at the left margin of the page. With this
arrangement, each line of position may be worked in one vertical
column, giving ample room for eight lines of position for each
double page.
The correction for H, is applied “going uphill” in order to bring
the true altitude and computed altitude together for subtraction.
The point here is to prevent duplication, and it is considered suffi-
ciently important to justify the effort of adding up instead of
down. After a little practice it is no more trouble to put the H,
below the corr. and add up than to follow the usual form. Now to
make the form suitable for the sun as well as for the moon,
planets, and stars, a couple of lines are skipped when working sun
lines in order to make the longitude and hour angle come on the
same lines as for other bodies. By so arranging the forms that
the same operation is done on the same line for all bodies, the dif-
ferent values may be checked more easily. Since all the elements,
except time, change slowly when actually navigating at sea, errors,
except time, may be detected quickly by comparing with preced-
ing values on the same line.
The simple arrangement of putting all of the work for a sight
in one vertical column looks so different from the old forms that
it might at first glance seem awkward, but the work is reduced, all
duplication is avoided, and by having the work compactly arranged
on corresponding lines, the work may be checked and in some
cases partially copied from the previous lines of position.
With this arrangement, and by use of the haversine formula for
working all lines of position, only one form need be written at the
left margin of the page and all work throughout the book for lines
of position may be done with reference to the one form.
There is no particular form suggested for working lines of posi-
tion by the method given in H.O. 203, but such a form may be
worked out and arranged vertically, as in the case of the haversine
formula. The form suggested is so arranged that the corrections
to local hour angle and sextant altitude are made going up, instead
of down, the page in order to avoid duplication and to bring the
values to be subtracted in the correct position.
To illustrate the advantage of the vertical arrangement for the
solution of the lines of position, lines worked for the sun, the
moon, a planet, and a star will be worked by the haversine formula,
and the same lines worked by H.O. 203. In order to emphasize


  p. 2141 (#1095)                      

1925)
2141
The Navigator's Notebook
the advantage by the quick checking of a portion of the work,
these lines are worked for the same date and about as they would
be worked at sea. As a further comparison, the solution of two
simultaneous star sights is taken from page 45 of Dutton's Celo-
Navigation. It will be noted in the latter solution that the name
of each of the stars appears three times, while the latitude, longi-
tude, and altitude of each star is written twice. The declination
and right ascension are not repeated, but in some forms even
these are uselessly repeated. A good part of the work in the solu-
tion of these lines is the finding of the azimuths of the stars. One
of the best features of the solution by H.O. 203 is the fact that
the azimuth is picked out at the same time the local hour angle is
taken from the table with one opening of the tables.
The time diagram is necessary and desirable for the student,
since the G.C.T. and date are puzzling, and since the problems to
be solved may jump from ocean to ocean, while in actual practice,
the G.C.T. and date give little trouble and the diagram, therefore,
is just so much verbiage which should be omitted for the sake of
speed and compactness.
It is believed that more stress should be placed on the new
method given in H.O. 203. If it is just as accurate and consider-
ably shorter than the haversine formula, and if the disadvantage
of a slightly more difficult plotting operation is more than counter-
balanced by its advantages, there seems to be no logical reason
why it should not be adopted to replace the haversine method.
It is well to decide definitely what system is to be used in solv-
ing for lines of position. The St. Hilaire haversine method has
been the one most used in the past few years, though the various
methods of working lines without the use of logarithms are rap-
idly coming into use. Aquino, H.A. 201, H.O. 203, and the com-
pactly arranged Japanese Admiralty tables, are some of the best
known methods. With the standard St. Hilaire line worked by
the haversine formula giving a satisfactory method approved by
the Navy Department, without the use of Aquino's tables, or other
short methods not sponsored by the Department, there has been
the feeling that it would be less disastrous to run aground while
using the latest approved method of navigation! Since, however,
the Navy Department has laboriously worked up the splendid
tables given in H.O. 203, and since it has spent approximately
$50,000 getting them out, and now approves their use, thereby


  p. 2142 (#1096)                      

2142
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
giving a short simple method not involving logarithms, there now
seems to be no logical reason why the method should not be
adopted for general use.
If an officer has been working lines of position for several years
by any standard method, it would be unnecessary to commence on
an entirely new method, but the younger officers should be encour-
aged to choose the best method available in the beginning.
Once the method to be used is decided upon, it should be used
continuously rather than attempt the use of different methods for
different occasions. By repeatedly working with one method, one
naturally becomes more proficient in its use.
While the lines of position and chart work constitute the greater
portion of the navigator's labors at sea, the computations for the
times of transits of bodies, the meridian altitudes and numerous
other minor operations must be entered in the notebook. In addi-
tion to the St. Hilaire sight, the vertical haversine formula lends
itself to several other operations. Determining the G.C.T. for
any operation might be logically and chronologically done by the
use of the time portion of the vertical haversine formula. This
applies also for the hour angle, as well as for the sidereal times.
For instance, the L.S.T. for a Polaris sight, the altitude correc-
tions, and the corrections for L.S.T. might conveniently be done
by the use of the one universal vertical formula. This would give
a line of position arranged in logical sequence with the other work.
Another use of this form was inadvertently demonstrated by a
midshipman. He was working a watch time of local apparent
noon problem. Having memorized the time portion of the for-
mula, he apparently noted that it ended with what he was given
and that it started off with what was required; at any rate, he
wrote the form for finding local apparent time, then put 12-00-00
for the local apparent time and worked up hill till he arrived at
watch time, which was required.
As a matter of fact, this makes a logical arrangement of the
work in the notebook, and only one column is needed for working
out the W.T. of L.A.N., and the altitude correction, declination
correction, and the simple operation of combining the h and dec.
may conveniently be done in the same column, thereby making
another long step toward systematizing the notebook work.
Except for the conversion of the G.S.T. to G.C.T., finding the
watch time of transit of any heavenly body may conveniently be


  p. 2143 (#1097)                      

1925]
2143
The Navigator's Notebook
done as in the case of the sun. In converting the G.S.T., to
G.C.T., the R.A. must first be applied to G.S.T. to get the sidereal
interval which is the G.C.T. expressed in sidereal units and is
converted by the use of table II of the nautical almanac.
In other features the notebook might be made more convenient
for use and considerable time saved as a result. Instead of
scrambling through thick tables for the altitude correction for the
sun and stars, why not paste inside of the front cover of the note-
book the corrections ordinarily used? The height of eye is usually
the same day after day, therefore one narrow column cut from an
old table would give the needed correction at a glance. At the
same place should be pasted an arc-time conversion table. Finally,
and most important, all data pertaining to the ship which can
conveniently be condensed and placed on one double page should
be collected and arranged so as to avoid trouble and embarrass-
ment. This data would include the speed-revolution table, prin-
cipal measurements of the ship, height of trucks, distance from
bow to bridge, knots per ton of fuel at various speeds, and tactical
data. To be sure all of this data may be obtained from other
pamphlets or drawings, but the point is that the notebook is always
at hand for quick reference.
LINES OF POSITIONS
by
Sun, Moon, PLANET, AND STAR
On October 3, 1925, at about 5:30 A.M., the U.S.S. Bobolink,
with tow, is in D.R. Lat. 37-50 N., Long. 75-05 W. The navigator
observes the lower limb of the moon for a line of position, as
follows: W 5-50-00; C-W 5-02-00; Chro. slow im-07.38; Ht. of
eye 45 ft.; I.C. 0-00; H, lower limb of moon 14-48-00. The speed
is 6 knots and the course is 180° true. When the watch read
10-50-00 A.M., H, for sun's lower limb was 46-30, and when watch
read 6-30 P.M., the H, of Venus was 9-16-00, and the same instant
the H, of Antares was 14-48-20, the C-W, C.C., Ht. of eye, and
I.C. being the same as for the moon.
Required the lines of positions for the four bodies.
Solved by St. Hilaire haversine formula and by the method
given in H.O. 203 using the special forms for each.
Note: The moon sight is taken from Dutton's Celo-Navigation.


  p. 2144 (#1098)                      

2144
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
LINES OF POSITIONS BY ST. HILAIRE HAVERSINE METHOD
NEW YORK TO GUANTANAMO
October 3, 1925
BODY, 0530 MOON 1030 Sun 1830 VENUS 1830 ANTARES
W......
5-50-00 10–50-00
C-W
5-02-005 -02-00
C......
10-52-00 15-52-00
+1-07.3 +1-07.3
GCT............ 10-53-07.3 15-53–07.3
RAMO +12 0_44–42.9
Eq.T. or Red.... 1-47.3 +10–54.5
GAT. or GST.... 11–39–37.5 16-04-01.8
Long............ 5-00-20 w 5-00-20 w
L.S.T............ 6-39–17.5
LAT or RA...... 1-42-44 11-03-41.
8
H.A. or t........ 4–56–33.5 0-56–18.2
6-30-00
5-02-00
11-32-00
+1-07.3
23-33-07.3
0_44–42.9
3–52.1
00–21-42.3
5-00–20 W
19-21-22.3
15-13-08.7
Same as for
Venus.
19-21-22.3
16-24-49.3
2-56-33
-1.
36
26-16S
0
Dec. (1)........ 5-05.6N
Corr............ +10.7
Dec. (2)......... 5–16.3N
Lat............. 37-50 N
In Dec.......... 32–33.6
3-55.75
: -.1
3-55.6S
37-20 N
41-15.6
19-27.69
-.4
19–27.25
36-34 N
56-01.2
26-16S
36–34N
62-50
Lat. I. cos........ 9.89752
Dec. I. cos....... 9.99816
t . hav....... 9.56033
0 1. hav....... 9.45601
O n. hav...... .28576
Endn. hav.......07860
Z. n. hav...... .36436
Z............... 74-15-35
Hc.............. 15-44-25
Ht.....
15-50-08
Corr. H.........+1-02-08
Hs............ 14-48-00
a................ 5.7 T
9.90043
9.99898
8.17651
8.07592
.01191
.12414
.13605
43–17–24
46-42-36
46-38-38
+8-38
46–30-00
4 A
9.90480
9.97447
9.42439
9.30366
.20122
.22054
:42176
80-59-51
9-00-09
9-03-40
-12-20
9-16-00
3.5 T
9.90480
9.95267
9.14973
9.00720
.10167
.27171
.37338
75-19-51
14-40-09
14-38-07
-10-13
14-48-20
2 A
Z (Wiers D.).....
264-20
159–14
237–35
212-55
The space below the lines of position should suffice for record of 0800, noon, and
2000 positions and other data.


  p. 2145 (#1099)                      

1925)
2145
The Navigator's Notebook :
TAKEN FROM PAGE 45 OF DUTTON'S CELO-NAVIGATION.
LINES OF POSITION FIX BY SIMULTANEOUS
OBSERVATIONS OF TWO STARS
Example 2: On July 2, 1925, during evening twilight, in D.R. position Latº
36-49 N, Long. 75-12 W, the navigator of the U.S.S. Detroit and his assistant took
simultaneous observations of stars B Leonis (Denebola) and A Scorpii (Antares)
for lines of positions as follows: W- 7-24-21; C-W 5-03-39; Chro. slow 00m-39.8s;
Ht. of eye 36 ft.; I.C.+1-30. H, Denebola 51-20-10; H, Antares 19-27-37. Required
the lines of position and the fix.
2 July, 1925.
STAR FIX, SIMULTANEOUS OBSERVATIONS.
Denebola
Lat. 36–49 N.
Antares
Long.75–12W.
5-00-48
t d
L Base
t 2-24.7 114–46
114-46 114–46
d 15 N 112–17 Denebola 115–56 – 14
W
7-24-21
L 36.8
(-) 149
(-) 70
(+)
(+)
70 N114-32 W.
56 Zn245–28
Antares
33-13 33–13 33-13
33-13
31-07 32-42 33–01 (-) 1-23
(-) 126 (-) 31 (-) 12 31-50
(-) 64 (-) 9 (-) 10 Zn 148–10
hs
19-27-37
I.C. (+) 1-30
T. 46(-) 8–37
Но
19-20–30
C-W 5-03–39 Sup.t.945.1
Chro.T. 0-28-00
Chro.S. (+)0–39.8 d 26.3 S.
G.C.T. 0_28–39.8(3 July)
R.A.M.O
L 36.8 N.
+12 18-41-59.9 hs 51-20-10
T.III 0-04.7 I.C. (+)1-30
G.S.T. 19–10-44.4 T.46 (-) 6-40
Long.(w) 5-00-48Ho 51-15-00
L.S.T. 14-09-56.4
R.A. 11-45–14.4 Denebola
t(w) 2-24-42 1. hav. 8.98404
36-49-00N 1. cos. 9.90339
d.
14-59-30N. 1. cos. 9.98496
1. hav. 8.87239
n.hav. .07454
Ind 21-49–30 n.hav. .03584
Z
38-48–30n.hav. 11038
Antares
L.S.T. 14-09-56.4
R.A. 16-24-50.5
(E)
L
2-14-54.1
36-49-00.N.
26-10-00 S
1. hav. 8.92539
1. cos. 9.90303
l. cos. 9.95267
d
1. hav. 8.78109
n.hav. 06041
n.hay. .27365
Lud 63–05-00
2 70-37-00n
19-23-00
19-20-30
.hav. .33406
Hc
Ho
51-11-30
51-15-00
3–30 miles toward
2-30 miles away


  p. 2146 (#1100)                      

2146
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
LINES OF POSITION BY METHOD OF H.O. NO. 203
NEW YORK TO GUANTANAMO
October 3, 1925.
1030 SUN 1830 VENUS
BODY
0530 MOON
1830 ANTARES
Same as for
Venus.
W...............
5-50-00 10-50-00
C-W..
5-02-005 -02-00
C......... 10-52-00 15-52-00
CC........ +1-07.3 +1-07.3
G.C.T........... 10–53-07.3 15-53-07.3
R.A.M.O +12... 0-44–42.9
RED. or EQ.T... 1-47.3 +10-54.5
G.S.T. or G.A.T. 11–39–37.5 16-04-01.8
R.A............. 1-42-44
G.H.A.....
9-56-53.5 4-04-01.8
L.H.A. (2)....... 4-55-08.5 1-03-12.8E
Corr. ........ +50.5 -10-17.2
L.H.A. (1)....... 4-54–18 1-13–30
Long (1)....
. 5-01-45 5 -07-14.6
Long (d).... 75-26-15 W 76-48–39 W
6-30-00
5-02-00
11-32-00
+1-07.3
23-33-07.3
0_44_42.9
3-52.1
0–21-42.
3
15-13-08.7
9-08–33.6
4-0649.6
- 1-54.4
408-44
5-01-44.0
75-26-00 W
0
-21-42.3
16-24-49.3
7-56-53.1
2–51-19.4
- 1-45.6
2-53-05
5-05-33.6
76-23-24 W
3-55-7
19–27.6
Dec. (1)......... 5-05.6
Corr......... +10.7
Dec. (2)......... 5–16.3 N
Lat............. 38 N
Hs.........
14-48-00
Corr....... ...+1-02-08
Ho..........
.. 15-50-08
a............... 9.9 A
3-55.6 S
37 N
46-30-00
+8-38
46–38-38
8.6 T
19-27.2 S
37 N
9-16-00
-12-20
9-03-40
3.7 T
26-16
00
26-16 S
37 N
14-48-20
-10-13
14-38-07
21.9 A
Z...............
264.1
156.7
237.3
219.1
Note: AZ=5° for 1° change in latitude.
HARBOR CHARTING UNDER DIFFICULTIES
On February 12, 1924, the Rochester was lying off the port of
Ceiba, Honduras, the setting for O. Henry's Cabbages and Kings,
safeguarding American interests while the various presidential
aspirants "revoluted.” The only chart of the place available was
H.O. Chart No. 394, published in 1884 from data taken in 1877,
scale about 1:7200. Moreover, when approaching the town, it
was found that it had been incorrectly charted. As there was
the possibility of making a hurried landing any time (sailors and
marines were landed within three weeks), a large scale harbor
chart was urgently needed. Due to the fact that the work was


  p. 2147 (#1101)                      

.
LA CEIBA, HONDURAS/
SOUNDINGS W PUT
BY SUAVEY PARTY, USS ROCHESTER
# FEBRUARY, 1924
NOTE - Moon Politia SA
do termined by Coighted Observations
LAT 15'50 of N. LONG. 86' 50'42"
LIIIIII rife
L.


  p. 2148 (#1102)                      

2148
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
(Nov.
started from the “stump," and proceeded under difficulties, a brief
description of the work is given, for what it is worth, as a pointer
to officers who might have to do similar work.
On account of the unsettled conditions ashore, the captain de-
cided that it would not be good policy to send a survey party
ashore to establish a point, measure a base line, and accurately
locate the town, but he directed that the work proceed with the
best data obtainable from the ship. The mountains south of Ceiba
spoiled the horizon for sun observations; in fact, the only good
observations obtained were made on six northern stars at dawn.
Five observations were made on each of six stars, and these were
worked out carefully by six officers giving over thirty lines, all of
which checked closely. The mean of the positions thus obtained
was used as the correct position of the ship, and with the bearing
and range finder distance, later checked by sextant angles, the best
position of the west radio tower in Ceiba was determined.
A motor sailer with the following personnel and equipment was
sent out for the data for the harbor chart:
Personnel
Duty
Equipment
Navigator
Plotted and directed Three arm protractor
work
range finder
Assistant navigator Sextant angles
Sextant
Quartermaster Sextant angles
Sextant
Quartermaster In charge soundings Three leads with lines
marked in feet
Recorder (yeoman) Record angles, sound Notebook previously
ings, etc.
ruled and spare pencils
Four seamen
Leadsmen
Boat crew
A working sheet was laid out and the position of several con-
spicuous objects on the beach located approximately by bearing
and range finder distance from the ship. These sufficed to run
sounding lines and were later adjusted with sextant angles taken
from the end of the two docks. The base line used was taken from
a blueprint of a portion of the town furnished by the Vacarro
Brothers Fruit Company; this, checked with range finder and a
round of sextant angles from the end of each dock, gave a chart
which is accurate enough for practical purposes. These data were
taken hurriedly on the twelfth, and the ship sailed the next morn-
ing before daylight. As required by Navy Regulations the data
was worked up, a harbor chart constructed, and the original data


  p. 2149 (#1103)                      

1925]
2149
The Navigator's Notebook
forwarded to the Hydrographic Office. The blueprints loaned by
the fruit company (American) were scaled down to a convenient
size and used to map the town which was shown with the harbor
chart. Finally, a tracing of the chart was made by Ensign Carson,
several blue prints were made from that, and because of the con-
ditions at Ceiba, copies were furnished to the Office of Naval
Intelligence and to other ships in the vicinity.
This sort of work is interesting and instructive, and considering
the fact that we can now keep more accurate time and have more
accurate instruments, there is no reason why we should not be able
to do more accurate work than the surveyors who worked forty or
fifty years ago under the greatest difficulties, yet who as a rule
turned out charts of surprisingly accurate standards.


  p. 2150 (#1104)                      

RADIO VISION
By C. FRANCIS JENKINS
T ROM the beginning of history, pictured information has
been the most quickly comprehended, and longest mentally
retained.
A hundred years ago photography was invented, eliminating
the possibility of dexterous error in pictures.
Thirty years ago motion was added to the picture, and we get
a sense of direction, comparative size, and approximate location.
Now radio as a carrier is wedded to the action picture so that
instantaneous delivery is attained for the most inclusive of all
means of information.
Naturally, all of these have been employed in the national de-
fense, and just as naturally it follows that this latest, radio vision,
should, in anticipation, be so considered, for it will enable the chief
of staff to sit in his office at headquarters, and watch the distant
battlefield, on sea or on land. He can constantly note the troop
movements or the fleet maneuvers, both his own and the enemy's.
The broadcasting instrument aboard the scouting airplane, by
which this is attained, is, then, literally, the eyes of the chief of
staff, the radio being the nerve tendrils which carry the visual
impressions from the scouting plane back to the brain of the com-
manding officer.
While it is true that such radio vision has not actually been done
from a plane in flight, it could be done at any time, for it is a daily
laboratory demonstration.
On June 13, last, this new thing, radio vision, was demonstrated
when Secretary Curtis D. Wilbur, and others of the Navy; Act-
ing Secretary, Judge S. B. Davis, Department of Commerce, and
friends, and Director, Dr. George M. Burgess, Bureau of Stand-
ards, saw, in a Washington laboratory, what was actually happen-
ing at the time in the Anacostia Air Station several miles away.
It is obvious, therefore, that refinement is all that remains to be
done before the chief of staff of any branch of our governmental
service may see on a screen in headquarters everything that the


  p. 2151 (#1105)                      

1925)
Radio Vision
2151
broadcast lens looks upon as it is carried aloft by a scouting air-
plane.
Of course, like every new thing, it is mysterious until the simple
principles and mechanisms employed are understood, but no longer.
To us in the laboratories it does not seem mysterious or im-
possible, or its attainment deserving of any particular comment.
We are familiar with each wire and screw and lens and tube, and
our surprise would come if the combination failed to give us radio
vision.
Until just a few days ago I have been so busy I have not had the
opportunity quietly to consider radio vision from the layman's

Jenkins Laboratories, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
The lens-disc and prisming mechanism of the recep-
tion of radio vision. The lens-disc (black) is about
eight inches in diameter. Laboratory-test mechanism.
point of view. I had seen in the problem only the need of getting
together the necessary elements and putting them into a working
combination. Some of these I found ready at hand in science and
engineering; some others I had to invent—that is, physically
create from a mental concept; the ring prism, for example, a new
contribution to optical science.
To me it does not seem strange that you may presently plug into
the loudspeaker jack of your radio receiving set, a small box-like
device which will project a picture on a small white screen; an
action picture of some event then taking place down town, or in
some distant city; for example, a presidential ceremonial, a na-
tional sport, a spectacular event.


  p. 2152 (#1106)                      

2152
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
It is the development, the refinement of each separate element,
that is now occupying my attention, and that of the keen young
men and young ladies who are assisting me, and I think I may
confidently promise you such an attachment before many moons.
Let's see whether there is warrant for assuming that it is a
simple problem; whether there is really any mystery in the thing,
after all. Let's analyze our problem—take it to pieces and examine
it in detail.

Jenkins Laboratories, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
The lens-disc and ring 'prism mech-
anism employed in the transmission of
radio vision. The lens-disc (black) is
about twelve inches in diameter, and the
mechanism with its motor weighs about
twenty-five pounds.
These are the essentials. First, a picture of the remote scene;
second, have the picture repeated fast enough to reproduce the
action on the scene.; and third, we want it carried into our homes
from the distant location, the baseball park, let's say. That's the
problem, and that is all there is of it: namely, a radio-carried,
continuous-picture of a distant activity. .


  p. 2153 (#1107)                      

1925]
2153
Radio Vision
[
"
DE
Hilih
Fig. 1
The Radio Vision receiving unit: G is the last tube of a detector-amplifier
set; the incoming radio signal strength is added to the critically-adjusted
lamp F; these fluctuating light values are distributed laterally by the lens-
disc D, and vertically by the ring prism E, over the picture-receiving screen C.
If one put one's head under the black cloth of an old-fashioned
camera, pointed at the baseball game, one would see in miniature,
on the ground glass an exact reproduction of the game as it goes
on. In this case, it is carried by light from the ball diamond to the
ground glass screen. That ground glass action picture is exactly
what we want, only we want it in our homes; but daylight alone
won't do, for light goes only in straight lines, and obstructions
cut it off. We must, therefore, have some kind of carrier which
B
[
]
FIG. 2
The Radio Vision transmitter unit: Beyond A is the scene to be trans-
mitted; B is the objective for imaging the scene onto ground glass C; D is
the rotating lens disc for linearly analyzing the image ; and E the prism ring
for distributing these linear "slices” across the light sensitive cell F; in which
the varying light values are converted into electric current values to be am-
plified (G) and broadcast.


  p. 2154 (#1108)                      

2154
.
U(Nov.
U
.
Naval Institute Proceedings
. S. can go around obstructions, and through the walls of our houses.
A copper wire will do, but a wire carries only to one place. Radio,
however, carries everywhere, so we adopt radio instead; besides
which, radio is a convenient and cheap carrier.
Next we come to the consideration of the picture. Now a pic-
ture is nothing but some black and white mixed up together in a
definite order. Pick up a newspaper, a book, or a photograph, and
examine it analytically; it is made up of lights and shadows only.
But how are we going to make radio, which has carried these
lights and shadows from the ball park to our home, reproduce the
ball game as a picture.
Don't you remember that when we were little tikes, mother en-
tertained us by putting a penny under a piece of paper, and by
drawing straight lines across the paper she made a picture of the
Indian appear. Well, that's the very way to do it.
In our homes we take a small square of white blotting paper,
fasten it on the wall, and move across it in successive lines an
image of a small light source. If this little light spot moves across
the screen swiftly the eye sees it as a line, like the circle of fire
of our youth when we swung a lighted stick.
Now, when these successive lines, one under another, succeed
each other so rapidly that the whole screen surface is covered in
one sixteenth of a second we have motion picture speed, and the
whole surface appears continuously illuminated.
But, when the illumination is controlled by the incoming radio
current, put through our lamp, the strong signals will make the
spot of light on the screen very bright in certain places; the
weaker signals less bright in other parts, and when there are no
signals at all the lamp goes out, and black spots appear. Our
screen is no longer uniformly lighted, but the light is dabbed about
over the screen.
Because a picture is only a collection of these little dabs of light
put around in different places on the screen, it will readily be seen
that these radio light variations, when they follow a predetermined
order, make up our picture of the ball game, just as the humps on
the penny made up a picture of the Indian.
On the broadcast apparatus the picture image of the baseball
game is "sliced” up into slices, like a bacon-slicer in the market,
and the lights and darks sweeping across a light sensitive cell are
converted into electric currents which, carried by radio to your


  p. 2155 (#1109)                      

1925]
2155
Radio Vision
home, are converted back into light values, a "motion picture"
of the distant ball game.
So that's the way we do radio vision in your home; that is, the
incoming radio signals turn the light up and down as it is moved
swiftly over the screen, and you “see" the distant scene.
Easy, isn't it? You can go out into the woodshed and build
yourself one now. Of course, if you have no woodshed where
you can get off by yourself and think clearly, you are out of luck.


  p. 2156 (#1110)                      

DISCUSSION
. . . . Diesel Engines for Capital Ships
(See page 1217, July, 1925, Proceedings)
Captain A. M. PROCTOR, U.S.N :-In my article on “Diesel Engines for
Capital Ships," published in the July number of the Institute PROCEED-
INGS, I attempted to present to the operating branch of the Navy a specific
advantage to be gained from a Diesel engine. This result was predicated
upon the possibility of developing an engine suitable for the purpose.
In view of the fact that Admiral Robison has apparently misunderstood
my purpose and seems to believe that I have recommended a jump toward
a "possible but improbable miracle," I will state specifically just what I
propose as a logical step toward the ultimate solution of the problem. It
is proposed that the development of a single cylinder unit suitable for the
purpose be undertaken.
This course has been followed by practically every leading Diesel engine
builder in Europe and by the Worthington Company in this country.
In every case where the difficulties have been overcome in a one-cylinder
engine and the resultant unit combined into a completed engine, the result
has been an unqualified success.
When the reciprocating engine passed into obsolescence there remained
one problem, the practical solution of which had not been reached—that of
torsional vibration.
During the past few years, however, largely through the efforts of Pro-
fessor F. M. Lewis of the Webb Academy and the Diesel engine personnel
of the New York Navy Yard the solution of this problem has reached a
practical basis, and, having developed a one-cylinder unit, it is now possible
to combine that unit in a multi-cylinder engine without fear as to the final
result.
No article can be written at present on the subject of Diesel engines
without the certainty that it will be obsolete when published. Since my
article was written several things have happened:
The results of the trials of the Gripsholm engine have been made
public, the 10,000 B.H.P. engines of the Asturias have been completed and
are ready for trial, the Augsburg engine is being built in a nine-cylinder
15,000 B.H.P. unit, and orders have been placed for a number of Werks-
poor double-acting engines developing 1,000 B.H.P. per cylinder.
Within the next few months the details of the Fiat two-cycle, double-
acting engine developing 2,000 B.H.P. per cylinder will be available.
Mr. H. H. Blache, the managing director of Burmeister and Wain, has
stated that his firm is prepared to build an engine with a forty-three-inch
cylinder in units of 25,000 B.H.P.


  p. 2157 (#1111)                      

1925]
2157
Discussion
This statement is entitled to great respect, made by the head of the firm
which has installed more marine Diesels than all other builders combined
and which has in service today every installation ever made, with the ex-
ception of that of the Selandia which was burned at sea.
It is evident that the day of the large Diesel has arrived.
It must be remembered, however, that all of these engines are long
stroke, low-revolution engines suitable for continued steaming, in commer-
cial vessels.
In the development of reciprocating steam engines, there was a marked
differentiation in type between the long-stroke liner engine and the short-
stroke high speed battleship engine.
There will be a similar differentiation in the Diesel engines, but with the
experience of the builders of commercial engines available, there will be no
difficulty in adapting the commercial type to naval needs.
The dynamic strains incident to the increased speed of revolution are
capable of exact determination.
With the establishment through commercial practice of the fact that
cylinder diameters necessary to develop the required power, at a certain
value of mean indicated pressure, are practicable the development of a
naval engine running at a high piston speed presents no difficulties, since
the heat strains do not increase, but rather tend to decrease, with in-
creased speed, so long as the mean indicated pressure remains the same.
Admiral Robison is in error in assuming that I have not considered all
of the factors involved. I have considered all of them very thoroughly.
The conditions which he lays down for naval machinery are as follows:
"First: Naval machinery must be safe to operate."
There are many things which can happen to a Diesel engine, but I have
been unable to think of anything which can happen to it which would class
it as being unsafe to operate, nor have I been able to learn of anything
which ever did happen to a Diesel engine which would so class it.
"Second: It must be reliable; it must be possible for a ship's force,
composed of such material as we have on naval vessels, to operate and
maintain naval machinery in such condition as always to be capable of
whatever service it was designed to render.”
There is undoubtedly a general impression in our service that Diesel
engines are not as reliable as steam machinery.
This impression is due to the unsatisfactory performance of the Maumee
engine, an engine which represented a jump toward large power units be-
fore the then-existing state of knowledge justified it, and to the complete
failure of all early submarine engines, due to faulty design. With the
Augsburg engine in service this impression is being corrected, but in pass-
ing judgment upon this engine it should be remembered that it is working
under conditions where a steam plant would be an impossibility.
As to the reliability of the Diesel engine, there is an accumulated mass
of information which is overwhelming and which is so well known to all


  p. 2157 (#1112)                      


BEAN
Tori
3 0 CLEARANCE
CLEARANCE
OVERLAP 16
Diam SCREWS 14-0
RATIO SCREW DIA BERS
8 .79
DWL COLFT 75
(ABRFT 0
Vi
DAIN DECH
DE TAX 686
DWL 338 opon FRAME
APPROL LENGTH
MOTOR R000 68.0"
CLEARANCE
CLEARANCE
SECTION 138
SECTION 190, 200 AND 201
SECTION 175
DIA DETERS OF SCREWS SHOWN 180 dem Of TANGENT CIRCLES 200
CLEARANCE --20"
RATIO SCREW DIAM : BEAM
..85
MAIN DECH
THAUST
DWL COCTE. 788
ABATT
BEAR 106.0
BEAM MAX. 1040"
AS DAWN
- 600
ge
- 0.7L 4250*
SKETCH SHOWING ONRECI DE
AND 31 'BROT fel
LENGTH DAN


  p. 2157 (#1113)                      

IME ANTIO OF LINEAR DIMENSION OF
ENGINE SHOWN BELOW TO THAT
SHOWN IN DIRECT DRIVE 15 1:2
CN Dina 17, STROKE 204, APM 400
MIS PLAN OF A SCOUT CAVISER WAS
DOWN ON A SCALE OF 'ho 1 Foot
USING THE SCALE OF THE BATTLE
CRUSER PLAN ON THE DIMENSIONS
ent INCREASED IN INE RATIO 151
ma
bo 1000000
out rey INE INLAA DENSONS
CRUISLAS BAY BUEN INCALASED
The 125
5- 9000 BNP UNITS. 45,000 BMP
LENGTH OM 1%.000 BNP. 296 .
MOTOR AND CONTROL ROOM APPROJ 660
TOTAL 364 O APPROX
AUTHOAT MACHINERY / ono !!
IRID
+
SECTION 138
LA
SECTION 100
- BEAM 01 104-0"
TYPICAL SEGTION
ELECTRIC DRIVE

CENT OF CHEWS
====
(DECHS)
AURELIARY MACHINAY
36.000 WF! () DECM3)
9
000 000 000 000
190.
-
1000 -
LINGIN ENGINE MOOPS 2000
-
LENGTH MACHINCHY SPACE 200-0"
THIS LENGTH ADDED TO BRING AVI RACH-
SPACE UP TO INA! OF ELECT DAME
LIGAY
AUXILIARY
DUD UUD DOO UOD
UDDDDD JODODD
MESY
16 CU.FI
MACHINERY
44.100 CU.FI
oso
o
o
o
70
30
s
ro
o so to
SCOLE - FEET
DRIVE IN SHIP 8500"Owl 104-0"max BEAM
VGTH MACHINERY SPACE 280'-0"
SPACE DIESEL ELECT 364.0"


  p. 2158 (#1114)                      

BEBE 6 ORE
3:0 CLEARANCE
CLEAU
-OVERLAP
-
5
-O
0 21-
Diam SCREWS 4.0
RATIO SCREW DIAM BEAM
OWL COU!..75
(ABAFT 0 )
ARRIN DECK
DO
fo
E
X. 66-6
60-0
D.NL. 338' o'rmon passe
APPROX. LENGTH
MOTOR A00m 6.0

CLEANONCE
CLEARANCE
O
SECTION 138
SECTION 190, 200 AND 201
SECTION 175
...DIA PETERS OF SCREWS SHOWN 180 DAM OF TANGENT CERCLES 20"
CLEARANCE --20"
RATIO SCREW Diem: BEAM - 0
BEAM - .85
.85
E-
MAIN DECH
THAUST
THRUST
DWL COEFF. 788
ABAF1
44-0-
BEAM
O
Brennan 1040"
AS DAWN
609-"
190
10.7L 425-
SKETCH SHOWING SPEC
AND 36 DSM
LN6TH


  p. 2159 (#1115)                      


THE RATIO OF LINEAR DIMENSION OF
ENGINE SHOWN BELOW TO THAT
SHOWN IN DIRECT DRIVE 15 1:2
an Dinn 17, STROKE 2041 APM 400
THIS PLAN OF A SCOUT CRUISER WAS
BROWN ON A SCRLE OF 20.
USING THE SCALE OF THE BATTLE
CRUSER PLAN BELOW THE DIBENSIONS
MAE INCREASED IN THE RANO 125
TO SO
Ovo que
XO DE
p000 000
ADOLAY THE LINEAR DIANENSIONS
SCOUT CRUISERS HAVE BEEN INCREASED
9720 125
5 - 9000 BHP UNI15. 45.000 BHP
LENGTH FOR (26.000 BMP-2960"
MOTOR AND CONTROL ROOM APPROX 680
TOIRL 34 OAPPROX
AUXILIARY MACHINERY
NOU!
HEHEHE
34CTION 138
SECTION 100
DEAM mal 1040
TYPICAL SEGTION
LLECTRIC DARE
(ENT OF SCREW
AU MACH
(DLC
)
VILLARY MACHINTAY
36.000 W FT (DEENS)
000 000 000 000
1000
100 o
LENGTH ENGINE nooms 200'0"
LENGTH PRACHINERY SPACE 280.0
THIS LENGTH ADDED 10 BAING AUI DACN
SPAU UP TO THAT OF ELECT DANE
AUXILIARY
ALLIAMY
CHINERY
3376
IMACHINERY
44.100 W.FT
BO
it so 2
2
30
70
80
100
40 50 60
SCALE - PEET
EL DRIVE IN SHIP 850'-0"WL 1040 AX BEAM
ENGTH MACHINERY SPACE 280'-0"
Y SPACE DIESEL ELECT 364.0"


  p. 2160 (#1116)                      

2160
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
officers who have followed the development of this engine that it would
seem to be superfluous to repeat any of it.
There is not a more conservative class in the world than the British
ship owner. Based on an experience far wider than our own, they are,
by placing orders for larger and larger units, showing a confidence in the
Diesel engine which should dispel any doubts as to the fact that this type
of engine is fully as reliable, under like conditions, as the steam engine.
As to the requirement that naval machinery shall be capable of being
maintained by the ship's force, it is within the knowledge of all sea-going
officers that in steam-driven machinery we are far from having reached
that goal.
There is an abundance of evidence available that the Diesel engine is
not inferior to the steam plant in this important respect.
It is, of course, basic that naval machinery should be placed below the
water line.
As to Admiral Robison's statement that "usually also it is necessary that
this machinery be ready to develop full power upon demand,” it seems
hardly necessary to point out that this feature is one which gives to the
Diesel installation a superlative advantage over the steam plant.
The comments of Admiral Dyson and Captain Robinson raise technical
questions which are difficult to answer without a lengthy discussion. I
will attempt, however, to state briefly my reasons for disagreeing with
both of them.
Admiral Dyson states:
For any considerable power over that which is now fitted on those
vessels (latest battleships) consideration of tip clearances between pro-
pellers and the hull and between adjacent propellers places such limitations
on the diameters of the propellers which can be used that we are driven
to increase in speed of revolutions in order that the propellers with these
limited diameters may be able efficiently to absorb the power, .... and it
is an absolute impossibility to use them (Diesel engines) for such powers
as our light cruisers and airplane carriers, both on account of the necessary
limitation of piston speeds of the engines and the resultant low revolutions
of the propellers.
As to the light cruisers I agree with Admiral Dyson ; I am not at present
prepared to suggest the possibility of a Diesel drive for those vessels. The
problem of the airplane carriers is far simpler, however, as will appear.
Little information is available as to those vessels, and detailed informa-
tion is presumably still held as confidential.
The following, however, has been published and is sufficient to form a
fairly accurate estimate as to the propeller conditions:
L.W.L.
850 feet o inches
D.W.L.
102 feet o inches
Beam max.
106 feet o inches
Draft D.W.L.
31 feet 6 inches
Speed
33.25 knots
S.H.P.
180,000
Diameter of motors
15 feet o inches
Eight motors on four shafts developing 22,500 S.H.P, each.


  p. 2161 (#1117)                      

1925]
2161
Discussion
35
Assuming that these motors are similar in their general proportions to
those of the West Virginia, which an inspection of the photograph pub-
lished in Marine Engineering indicates, it is a simple matter to determine
that in order to develop 22,500 S.H.P. the motor speed must be approxi-
mately 330 r.p.m.
Assuming a tip speed of 14,000 feet per minute, which Admiral Dyson
places as the limit if cavitation is to be avoided, the diameters of the pro-
pellers will be about 13.5 feet.
The scout cruisers on a maximum beam of 54 feet 10 inches have four
propellers with a diameter of 11.25 feet. Since the lines of the scout
cruisers v. ill not differ materially from those of the airplane carriers, it
would be possible to install four propellers with a diameter of about 22
feet and maintain the same proportions as in the scouts. From this it is
evident that the small propellers are a result of conditions limiting the
motor diameters rather than those of the propellers.
A comparison between the propeller conditions of the scouts and the
airplane carriers, using published data for the former and estimated data
for the latter is given below:
Propeller
Scout
Airplane Carrier
Diameter
11.25 feet
13.5 feet
Pitch
11.83 feet
14.25 feet
Ratio P/D
.95
.95
R.p.m.
380
330
Speed, knots
33
S.H.P.
90,000
180,000
Tip speed
13,429 f.p.m.
13,995 f.p.m.
Thrust per square inch. 11.5 lbs.
15.3 lbs.
D.A. (Based on S.H.P.)
In order to determine just what could be done in the way of screws for
a Diesel engined airplane carrier, it has been necessary to resort to the
drawing board, and the accompanying plan has been drawn showing a five-
shaft arrangement with twelve cylinders on each shaft.
In order to develop the power, 3,000 B.H.P. per cylinder will be re-
quired for which an engine of the following characteristics will be
necessary :
Cylinder diameter
34 inches Net area 850 square inches
Stroke
40.8 inches =3.4 feet
200
Piston speed
1360 f.p.m.
M.i.p.
96 lbs.
Mechanical Efficiency
90% (Separately driven auxiliaries)
M.e.p. brake
86.4 lbs.
B.H.P. Cyl.
3027 lbs.
I do not expect the statement that the development of such an engine is
practicable to be accepted without proof. I am quite prepared to submit
this proof in detail, but an attempt to do so at present would lead far be-
yond the limits of this discussion.
It may be pointed out, however, that this power being that required for
abnormal conditions during short periods of full speed required for naval
R.p.m.


  p. 2162 (#1118)                      

2162
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
vessels is not, when based on normal continuous steaming conditions, ma-
terially greater than that justified by recent developments. At 60 per cent
of full power, which is the present relationship between full power and con-
tinuous steaming power established by experience, this engine would develop
1,800 B.H.P. per cylinder, which is less than that of the Fiat engine, and
not materially greater than that of the Augsburg nine-cylinder engine now
under construction.
To return to the question of propellers : The plan of the scout cruiser
shown has been drawn for the purpose of comparison with the Diesel lay-
out for the airplane carrier. The lines of this sketch are only approxi-
mately correct, as they have been drawn without reference to confidential
plans, but in order that the comparison should be fair I have developed
the lines and sections of the airplane carrier from a water line having
a materially larger coefficient than that of the scouts.
Inspection of this plan will show that it is possible to install five screws
with a diameter of eighteen feet, with materially more favorable conditions
as regards tip clearances than exist in the scouts.
The propeller conditions for this layout are as follows:
Propeller
Diameter
18.0 feet
Slip
20 per cent (assumed)
Pitch
20.8 feet
Ratio P/D
1.15
R.p.m.
200
Speed
33 knots
S.H.P.
180,000
Tip speed
11,300 f.p.m.
Thrust per square inch D.A.
7.9 lbs.
(Based on S.H.P.)
By all the laws governing propeller design it would be permissible to
claim a higher propeller efficiency with the lowered propeller speed, and
consequent lowered tip speed and thrust, but with the specified B.H.P.,
180,000, the above data is sufficient to justify the claim that Admiral Dyson's
statement that “it is very doubtful whether Diesel engines arranged on
four shafts can be used for the development of any propulsive power much
in excess of our latest battleships," is too conservative.
I cannot but disagree with Captain Robinson when he states that the
present tendency in design points to the use of the reduction gear, or that
this will be the ultimate solution.
Many years ago, before the turbine was considered practicable for
marine installations in any form, an inventor appeared at the Navy Depart-
ment with a patent on the electric drive. Many letters were written from
the Bureau of Steam Engineering explaining that there could be no ad-
vantage in interposing a generator and a motor between a prime mover
and the propeller when the prime mover was capable of being directly con-
nected. The Diesel engine is essentially a slow speed machine. Admiral
Dyson makes the point that it is too slow to be connected to the high
speed propellers required in high powered installations. In this country


  p. 2163 (#1119)                      

1925)
2163
Discussion
there has been a marked development in the Diesel electric drive, and when
small high speed Diesels are compared to long stroke, slow speed, single-
acting engines a very favorable case can be made out for the electric drive.
The situation is very materially altered, however, when the comparison is
made with a double-acting engine. This development has been influenced
to a great extent by two factors; first, the fact that the small high speed
engine suitable for small powered, electric drive installations has reached
a high state of development in this country; and, second, the fact that this
form of drive has been pushed by two very progressive, aggressive, and
highly competitive firms. There has been no such development abroad,
and, with the exception of several installations made for the purpose of
using war-built submarine engines, there is, as far as I know, but one ex-
ample of the geared Diesel drive, that of the Monte Sarmiento. In dis-
cussing this installation, Dr. Hugo Fram makes an interesting comparison
which is given below:
Type of Drive
2,000 S. H.P. Single Screw
4-Cyc. S. A. 4-Cyc. S. A. 2-Cyc. S.A. 2-Cyc. D.A
direct
geared
direct
direct
Weight 430 tons 216 tons 289 tons 177 tons
Price $100,000 $69,600 $79,350 $51,400
Propeller
speed 95 r.p.m. 70 r.p.m. 85 r.p.m. 75 r.p.m.
Piston
speed 840 f. p.m. 840 f.p.m.
It will be noted that in the above table the two-cycle, double-acting engine
is rated at but 590 feet piston speed as compared to 840 feet piston speed in
the geared drive.
When we consider the geared drive for large power installations the
large number of cylinders required becomes impressive.
The Augsburg 21 inch by 21 inch submarine engine develops 300 B.H.P.
at 380 R.P.M. For an installation developing 180,000 B.H.P. this would
require 600 cylinders.
To install these engines six abreast, which would reduce the clearance
between engines to the limit, would require a line one hundred cylinders
long, and since the distance between cylinders is about 38.5 inches, the
total length required for cylinders alone, without room for generators or
passages between engines, would be 320 feet, 1.60 times the length required
for direct drive, with the motor rooms, generators, and passages still to be
accounted for,
It is, of course, possible to install double-acting engines for electric
drive, and a sketch has been made showing an installation of double-acting
engines having a ratio of linear dimension one half that of the direct drive.
This engine will develop one quarter the power of the direct drive engine
and will have a weight per B.H.P. of one half that of the direct drive.
Even allowing for the head room saved, the space occupied by the
electric drive is very materially greater than that of the direct drive. This


  p. 2164 (#1120)                      

2164
Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
is natural in view of the fact that the projected cylinder area is the same
with both installations, and that the passages between the engines, which,
being based on the size of the men using them, cannot be reduced below a
certain limit, are largely increased in area as the number of engines is in-
creased.
There would probably be a material saving in weight of the machinery
even with the motor and generator weights added, but when the extra fuel
required by the .92 efficiency of the electric combination is considered there
will be no net gain.
The number of cylinders required with this installation would be 260.
Should smaller engines be installed this number of cylinders will be in-
creased to a prohibitive figure, and the horizontal space, for reasons stated,
will be materially increased.
As a final objection it may be pointed out that the real reason for a re-
duction gear is to reduce the speed, and with propellers running at 330
r.p.m. imposed by motor conditions the speed reduction in any case would
be small.
In closing, I would again like to state, in case I may have been misun-
derstood, that I do not suggest that it is now practicable to install a Diesel
engine in any type of surface vessel contemplated.
What I do suggest is that if we undertake now the development of a
large size Diesel engine cylinder and carry on this development through
changing administrations up to the time of laying down a replacement
battleship, we shall in all probability be in a position to decide on the
motive power to be installed without the uncertainty and risk of having to
consider an undeveloped type, which may be forced upon us to meet the
competition of our possible opponents. .
It is quite true, as Admiral Robison states, that any naval vessel may at
some time, bear in itself the onus of maintaining the national honor, but,
in view of the highly competitive nature of our calling, it is for that very
reason that we cannot afford to proceed too safely. Herreshoff once re-
marked in regard to the highly competitive occupation of building yachts
to defend our national honor, “It is just as easy to lose a race by building
a yacht too strong as by building one too weak.” The same thing might be
said of battles and battleships.
Excellence of Naval Material
(See page 1573, September, 1925, PROCEEDINGS.)
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER J. F. SHAFROTH, U.S.N.—Lieutenant Com-
mander Craven, in his article entitled “Excellence of Naval Material," pro-
poses changes in the organization of the Navy Department that are so
extensive and radical as to require legislation to make most of them effect-
ive even if deemed desirable.
The merging of the "technical” bureaus into a "Division of Naval Ma-
terial" under a single head would be, it is believed, a progressive step. It
would undoubtedly result in the simplification of the seemingly illogical


  p. 2165 (#1121)                      

1925)
2165
Discussion
cognizance of material under the several bureaus, a simplification of con-
trol of navy yard expenditures and cost accounting and, as pointed out in
the article, would substitute coordination for cooperation with its personal
variables. The head of such a division should be, in my opinion, junior to
the Chief of Naval Operations. It would seem fitting that he be given
the rank of vice admiral as the position that he would occupy would be one
of great responsibility and should be one of great authority.
I completely disagree with Lieutenant Commander Craven as to the de-
sirability of placing the function of determining the military and major
operational characteristics of ships under the proposed “Division of Naval
Material.” The head of such division will undoubtedly be a “material
man," whereas the characteristics to be embodied in our vessels must
primarily be based on tactical and strategical considerations and the mate-
rial designed and fabricated to conform to such considerations.
Usually the General Board is composed of officers who have recently
held important commands afloat and whose duties have compelled them to
give much thought to strategical and tactical situations that may arise in
war. They have available the advice of experienced officers in every line
and are admirably equipped to specify the military and major operational
characteristics of vessels. The "Division of Naval Material” would have
the task of preparing the detailed designs to meet the specifications laid
down by the General Board and would and should have the advice of ex-
perienced seagoing and technical officers in this work. In case the speci-
fications were greater than could be embodied in a vessel of the allowed
tonnage, and this is believed to be desirable rather than otherwise in order
to obtain the maximum, it would devolve upon the “Division of Naval
Material” to inform the General Board what combinations of certain
features would be possible. The decision as to the modifications should,
however, not come from the technical division but from the General Board;
that is, from experienced line officers who have handled or will handle the
finished product. The general characteristics having been determined upon
and pronounced practicable then the “Division of Naval Material” would
proceed with the detail design work cooperating as at present but cooper-
ating under an authoritative coordinator with authority to render a definite
decision that would be binding on the cooperating agencies.
It is regretted that Lieutenant Commander Craven's article is so long
and goes into such detail. It becomes of more interest if read with Com-
mander Fisher's article on Proposed Administrative Changes in the Navy
Department, March, 1925, issue of PROCEEDINGS.
Excellence of Naval Material
(See page 1573, September, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
COMMANDER H. S. HOWARD (CC), U.S.N.—The article by Lieutenant
Commander F. S. Craven, U. S. Navy, entitled, “Excellence of Naval Ma-
terial,” is of great interest, particularly to one who is, or has been, con-
cerned with the design of naval ships. In studying the article it divides


  p. 2166 (#1122)                      

2166
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
itself naturally into two parts: one part is a criticism of the present or-
ganization of the Navy Department as concerns the whole handling of naval
material by bureaus, with their present responsibilities as to funds, cog-
nizance, and their interrelations, with a scheme proposed as a substitute;
the second part comprises a suggested scheme for the conception and carry-
ing out of designs of naval vessels.
In the article, the second question, that of naval design, is treated first,
and in the most detail, and it appears obvious that this question of the de-
sign of naval vessels is the one in which the author is most interested and
his proposed scheme for handling designs is the principal feature of the
article. Therefore, although this question is actually subsidiary to the
major question of the proposed reorganization of the material branch of the
Navy Department, it will be commented upon first.
The author's principal suggestions as to changes in the method of handling
designs of ships are that first, the original conception as to the design or
type of vessel which is needed should come from one man, the head of the
design division of the Navy Department, who should be a line officer. The
idea is stressed of the superiority of one-man design over design by a
committee. Second, it is proposed that the development of the design up
to the point where final detailing starts, should be supervised by line
officers.
As far as the first point is concerned, I am disposed to agree that if the
right man is selected for the "head of the conceptive agency," be he line or
technical officer, greater brilliance will almost surely result in the designs
than where design in its conception is handled by a committee, as it is at
present. However, mistakes may well be greater. As an example there
are the Glorious, Furious, and Courageous, brilliant conceptions of a most
able officer, but worthless as ships for their intended functions when built.
It is believed that a superman only could fill the proposed position of "head
of conceptive agency,” particularly when it is remembered that his principal
job must, of necessity, be at sea, commanding ships or fleets, with this
design job an offshoot from the work to which he has been trained all his
life.
With designs conceived (or at least with the major characteristics out-
lined), as they are at present by the General Board, the whole conception
comes from line officers of experience. The technical design bureau can
and does submit proposed designs, varying from radical to reactionary for
the consideration of the board during its determination of characteristics,
and when designs are proposed by the conceptive board this technical bureau
can ascertain in a short time whether such proposals are practical from
an engineering standpoint or not.
It is agreed that designs by a board or committee are probably com-
promises, but, as stated above, without the assurance that the one man in
a one-man design division is a superman, it is believed that the present
system gives results much better on the average than would be attained by
the system as proposed.
As regards the next point, that line officers should supervise and control
the development of design, this is a difficult question, and I believe that as


  p. 2167 (#1123)                      

19251
Discussion
2167
a practical possibility, it is out of the question. The major features of new
ships, both military and operational, are now established by line officers,
and practically all of the detail features are subject to their comment and
criticism, as each new ship represents almost entirely in its details, an ad-
vance upon and not a departure from its predecessors, and these features
of a new ship are determined by the results obtained with similar features
on the old. No matter how able a line officer, and I am in no sense intend-
ing to criticize their ability, their work does not run continuously along
the line of ship design. Ship designers depend very greatly upon the com-
ments and criticisms of line officers as to features of existing ships and
of the features of ships under design, and to obtain this comment, reports
are received from vessels in the fleet, and the criticism of line officers on
duty in the department is sought on new designs. For the best results in
the actual preparation of a detailed design, however, I cannot see any
solution but a branch of technical ship designers. As a matter of fact, in
this article Lieutenant Commander Craven states that the line cannot per-
form technical design, and this statement cannot be reconciled with his
proposed design division. While the preceding may be criticism, it is in
entire agreement with his principle that "line officers should participate in
the development of all general designs as regards the incorporation of mili-
tary or operational features."
The remainder of the article is a criticism of the present division of
work among the bureaus of the department and their cognizance, and the
present system of appropriations. With these comments I am generally in
accord. The present bureaus have grown to enormous proportions from
small and simple beginnings, and in this growth the division of cognizance
between the bureaus has not kept pace with modern development. The
present system is not the fault of the bureaus themselves, and in any
organization, divisions or bureaus, give them whatever name you will,
must exist to care for the logical divisions of the work. The present con-
ditions are, of course, aggravated by the system of appropriating funds, and
the responsibility therefor.
In general it appears to me that the reorganization of the department
which Lieutenant Commander Craven proposes would doubtless be an im-
provement on the present organization. With some details I do not agree,
as, for example, there must be closer touch than is indicated between
maintenance and design, as these two functions come together when altera-
tions on ships of the fleet are to be undertaken, since the necessity of
alterations will almost surely bring the need for changes in new design.
However, the general scheme as proposed seems logical, and, subject
to a revision as to details, would represent an improvement over the present
system.
Excellence of Naval Material
(See page 1573, September, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
Captain H. C. DINGER, U.S.N.—The article written by Lieutenant Com-
mander Craven brings up many points that are worthy of discussion. It
shows extensive and studied thought and therefore merits careful con-


  p. 2168 (#1124)                      

2168
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
sideration. It apparently represents the views of an officer of independent
ideas who sees many shortcomings in our present naval material and in the
present system of producing and handling it.
Apparently, the author has had considerable experience in handling and
operating intricate naval materials, particularly ordnance material, and he
also appears to have studied much. His reactions are, no doubt, largely
the result of his experience, study, and thought. His experience appar-
ently is lacking in connection with the actual design and construction of
vessels and the making of major repairs and alterations.
This appears to be reflected in the article. The recitation of short-
comings is, in general, sound. The suggested remedies, however, often
appear to be theoretical and in many respects rather impracticable.
For present shortcomings, duplications, interferences, and lack of unity,
there would be introduced others more varied and less easily assimilated.
Many of the suggestions embody an idealism that is difficult to realize
in these quite practical times.
Any organization of the Navy and any administrative procedure for the
Navy, to be successful, must be based on the navy personnel as it actually
exists now or is likely to exist in the near future; also, on Congress and
the present people of the United States. This fact appears to have been
lost sight of to a considerable extent. Also, in citing present difficulties,
these are laid to the present system instead of to individual idiosyncrasies.
As a matter of fact, most of our terrible examples are not due to any par-
ticular system but due to improper individual action by persons who should
have known better. Now it looks to me that the suggested scheme will
very greatly multiply the opportunities for such contrary individuals. I
do not anticipate that the supply of such contrary-minded individuals will
be greatly decreased in the immediate future.
Commander Jordan's discussion in the September number of PROCEED-
INGS is a very good answer to many of the novel ideas advanced.
My own reactions are based largely on experience with naval material.
This has involved design, construction, inspection, operation, and command.
My experience has been such that I have had the opportunity of looking
from the outside in as well as from the inside out. The views and view-
points from these two situations are not the same. With this basis of
experence I shall venture to go over the article and comment pro and con
on the various matters, mainly from the viewpoint of a technical officer.
Page 1578—Money. I see no practical way of disregarding money. We
shall have to regard and also surrender to money limitations, whether we
like it or not. Disregard for money considerations has been one of our
most serious shortcomings, sometimes resulting in disaster. Ajax was not
a very practical man, nor did he exercise very good judgment.
Pages 1578 and 1579. There appear to be an unnecessarily large number
of groups. I cannot see how the financial group is to represent productive
and operational costs or available funds. Congress and the budget sets
the available funds and it is not very difficult to ascertain what they are.
Page 1580 and following. There will be need in any organization for
coordination and cooperation. Brilliant conception is obviously based on


  p. 2169 (#1125)                      

1925)
2169
Discussion
intelligence, knowledge, and experience. This can be secured to some ex-
tent by individuals and also by boards or committees.
Page 1585. Again, there appears to be too many groups. I cannot see
what the financial group has to do. Furthermore, supply officers are not
estimators of material costs. The present General Board appears to exer-
cise or can exercise the functions of the Board of Review.
Pages 1586 and 1587. Comments on these pages are quite sound, par-
ticularly those relating to permanence of personnel.
Page 1592. Line officers keep out of technical design. I cannot agree
to this, except that they should keep out of the particular design work for
which they are not fitted. By all means, use their talents where they are
productive.
Page 1594. The various subdivisions appear to be arbitrary as con-
ceived by the author. Such subdivisions as are given would probably not
be used in actual practice.
Page 1597. Records. This looks very complicated. I cannot grasp
clearly what is meant. Such elaboration as appears to be suggested is deemed
quite unnecessary and would be confusing to the actual designers. Proper
design and operating records should be kept. However, it is not necessary
that these be kept all in one room or in one particular place.
Page 1597. The author appears to think that the preparation of a ship's
design is much more complicated than it really is. Designing a vessel,
although a big job, is not such a terrible mystery to those properly trained
and familiar with the work.
Page 1605. The conception of planning, contracts, procurement, and
storage appears to be rather hazy. These things are done quite effectively
and efficiently under our present system. Storage should be a function of
the supply officers.
Page 1606. Cost accounting is at present centralized; no greater cen-
tralizing appears necessary or desirable.
The conception of testing and inspection does not appear to be clear.
In actual practice it is not split up in the manner suggested. It also is
tem when this is properly carried out.
Page 1608. Observations as to economy are concurred in.
Effective centralized control over various yards is now effectively exer-
cised.
There is close liaison between production and maintenance since these
functions are largely combined in the same persons.
The distinction between production and maintenance is not understood.
At present, design, production, inspection, and maintenance on any par-
ticular type of material is quite well coordinated because these functions
are exercised by the same person or persons trained and experienced along
the same lines.
Page 1609. Cooperation with Operation. There is now an effective sys-
tem for accomplishing this. Its efficiency depends upon the intelligence of
the officials who operate it.


  p. 2170 (#1126)                      

2170
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Page 1610. Advance reports. Such reports are of little use. The
agency that is to accomplish the work must necessarily examine it, unless
it is a simple replacement.
Page 1612. The suggestion for a single agency for developing material
appears to be sound.
Page 1613. We already have centralized accounting, also a budget
agency. The budget agency is as yet not fully developed, but accounting
is. In some respects it is overgrown.
Page 1614 and following. The remarks on training and specializing are
the best part of this article.
Page 1617. There is no reason why line officers should not do technical
design for which they fit themselves properly.
A proper system of specialists within the line will probably secure better
allround results than a technical corps except for naval constructors and
civil engineers who seem to be satisfactory under present arrangements.
Page 1617. The General Board is advisory. The Chief of Operations
makes decisions, being guided, supposedly, by his Assistant for Material
and Planning Section
Page 1618. Specialists do participate very decidedly in major conceptions.
Continuous conceptive supervision. According to the present organiza-
tion of the Navy Department this is lodged under the Chief of Naval
Operations, (Assistant for Material).
Page 1619—7-8. Material is handled both by classes and by functions.
This is entirely proper. A purely functional organization is quite ini-
practicable.
Page 1620—10. It is entirely proper that technical officers should con-
trol ship design, being guided in this by military and operating require
ments. This is the only practical way of accomplishing effective results.
Page 1621–11. This seems to hit the nail on the head.
12. Line specialists can and should perform technical de-
sign. Radio is an instance of successful application.
13. If any additional coordinating is necessary, Chief of
Naval Operations (Material Section) is provided for this very purpose.
14. There is little or no overlapping cognizance. Cog.
nizance is quite clearly defined and is well understood by officials familiar
with material work.
15. This can hardly be admitted. The trouble so far has
been that there has been no proper concensus of opinion on military require-
ments and these have not been placed before the technical forces in a proper
form for use. This condition is being improved but is far from satis-
factory. Note delay in getting out design of new light cruisers.
Destroyer body designs have reached great excellence in securing the
military characteristics of speed and economy of power. The military
authorities would hardly wish to sacrifice these for the subsidiary and less
definite requirement of a smaller turning circle. Actual design is a com-
promise, not a theoretical ideal.
Our light cruisers have four stacks because this is the best arrangement
for utilizing the space and weight available. Smoke control was not the


  p. 2171 (#1127)                      

1925)
2171
Discussion
guiding factor. Precious space is gained, not sacrificed, by this arrange-
ment. A real improvement, however, is to use a fewer number but larger
boilers.
16. Standardization is being improved. Better coordination
and cooperation among the bureaus fostered by Naval Operations and
Navy Yard Division can improve this.
17. Matters are quite well centralized in material bureaus.
22. This is condensed at navy yards and manufacturing
plants. Bureau division does not affect this at all.
24. Not objectionable.
25. This is hardly so to any very great extent. It is some-
thing that can be coordinated by Navy Department.
26. Navy yard work is now quite well coordinated; at
least, agencies to do so are provided.
27. This is not objectionable.
28. This is so. It can be remedied by better budgeting
and simplifying appropriations.
29-30. These are concurred in.
Page 1622. Modification of existing system. Officers who have had ex-
tensive material experience will hardly agree with this. Combining all
material matters under some definite head would be desirable, but who is
to do it? This is a nut to crack.
Page 1624. Accounting is already centralized.
The term "handling contracts" is obscure. Procurement of material
is handled by the material bureaus who draw up requirements and conduct
the inspection, and by the Bureau of Supplies and Accounts which actually
places the contracts and looks after financial requirements. This works
quite satisfactorily, particularly when the representatives of each of the
bureaus concerned understand their functions.
Why split up the Supply Department? It is working well as is. It is
not logical, economical, or desirable to subdivide procurement and storage
as suggested.
Page 1625. The accounting office is in the Bureau of Supplies and
Accounts. This is about as good a place as any other.
I fail to see where the budget office is to exercise real coordinating in-
fluences except indirectly.
5. Why split up Bureau of Supplies and Accounts?
6. This has something to recommend it.
7. This split-up is not particularly desirable.
Page 1626—8-12. This appears to introduce a rather top-heavy staff.
It is not particularly desirable to have a bureau of design separate from
production and maintenance and from inspection, testing, and so forth. It
looks as if the suggested organization, which apparently is to extend its
split-up to the navy yards, would be vastly more complicated than is our
present organization.
Page 1629. Remarks on specialization are concurred in.
Page 1630—33. Would not too large a number of schools and school
ships be required? This can be overdone.


  p. 2172 (#1128)                      

2172
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
34. Remarks on assignment of duty are generally con-
curred in.
Page 1631. Is it not a rather large order for the Navy to put over:
"Congress must be brought to see, and so forth?"
Congress often has ideas of its own and sometimes they are not entirely
wrong. Congress also must give consideration to money limitations.
It is believed that discussion of this article should bring out many val.
uable ideas and these discussions should redound to the good of the Navy.
The author is to be congratulated upon the vast amount of serious
thought and detail that has been presented in his article.
It is very unlikely that any novel and revolutionary scheme for the re-
organization of the Navy Department such as that proposed will ever be
adopted.
Any improvement in our present system is likely to be by development
and evolution, not by revolution. The improvements must come from
within. The leaven is working and will no doubt continue to work. The
improvement may appear to be slow and halting, but it is there. The prin-
cipal thing that can be done to help is that important positions be filled
by officers best fittted to perform the proper functions of each particular
office. The less number of square pegs in round holes, the better Navy
we will have.


  p. 2173 (#1129)                      

1925)
2173
The Bridge Across the Atlantic
The Bridge Across the Atlantic
Captain Yates Stirling, Jr., U. S. Navy, has requested the Secre-
tary to give publicity to the following:
In the article, “The Bridge Across the Atlantic" published in the Septem-
ber, 1925, INSTITUTE PROCEEDINGS the following paragraph appears:
In spite of the thoroughness of the German wreckers, the daring
adoption of the electrical welding introduced by Captain Jessop, U. S. N.,
reduced a two years' task to one of five months.
Since publishing this article I have been reliably informed that the inception
of the idea of applying electrical welding to the repairs of the ex-German
ships came from Commander A. B. Hoff, retired, U. S. N. This in no way
detracts from the credit due to Captain Jessop for his perseverance and
professional skill, together with his responsibility in adopting and carrying
out the plan.
The particular electrical welding process in question was devised by
Mr. D. H. Wilson, an electrical engineer on the Erie Railroad. It was first
advanced in 1915. It was tested by the Navy and approved. Commander
Hoff was instrumental in the first place in introducing Mr. Wilson to the
naval authorities and obtaining recognition of his process.
The day war was declared, April 6, 1917, Commander Hoff held a con-
sultation with Mr. Wilson who was then vice president of his own welding
company. Commander Hoff was at that time in the administration of the
Erie Railroad. Commander Hoff advised Mr. Wilson that his process could
repair the German ships. Commander Hoff explained to Mr. Wilson that
he would encounter strong opposition from the ship building interests who
would naturally wish to employ standard methods of ship yard repairs but
that by his welding method the time to complete the German ships would be
reduced so considerably as to force the government to use it. Commander
Hoff gave Mr. Wilson a letter to Captain Jessop. Captain Jessop was con-
vinced by his examinations into the project and through his recommenda-
tions the process was used. If this process had been a failure, naturally,
Captain Jessop would have had to shoulder the responsibility. As it was a
great success, naturally, Captain Jessop got the credit. However, Com-
mander Hoff was the originator of the idea to employ this method in the
repairs to the German ships in order to save time which meant both lives
and treasure to the United States, and for this brilliant conception and for
his work in bringing this electrical welding process to the notice of Captain
Jessop a part of the credit of electrical welding of the German ships should
go to Commander Hoff.


  p. 2174 (#1130)                      


H.M.S. "NELSON" TO BE COMPLETED IN 1927
This ship and her sister the Rodney will replace four of the older British battleships


  p. 2175 (#1131)                      

PROFESSIONAL NOTES
ARRANGED BY
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER H. W. UNDERWOOD
FROM SEPTEMBER 3 TO OCTOBER 3
2176
2176
GENERAL ARRANGEMENT
GREAT BRITAIN
The Imperial Navy ......
The Cruiser Program .....
The New Cruisers .......
New Treaty Battleships Nelson and Rodney
The New Battleships
Sir....
Warship Maintenance Costs ....,
Juggling With a Destroyer .
The Plight of the Shipbuilding Industry ..
2180
2183
2186
2188
2189
2190
FRANCE
French Navy Notes ..
..............
2102
2192
AVIATION
Airplane Replacements in the Early Part of War ......
Bombing Accuracy
Flying Ships ......
2196
2197
2200
ENGINEERING
Propulseur Trompe for Airplanes ........
The Whaley Constant Pressure Oil Engine .
The Metering of Fluids ....
......
.........
2202
2203
2205
MERCHANT MARINE
.....
Commissioner Haney and Admiral Palmer ..
2207
Water-Borne Commerce through U. S. Ports in 1924 ............ 2208
MISCELLANEOUS
Warships of the Future ....
CURRENT NAVAL AND PROFESSIONAL PAPERS
2209
..........
221


  p. 2176 (#1132)                      

2176.
[Nov.
V. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
GREAT BRITAIN
The Imperial Navy
The Army, Navy and Air Force Gazette, 5 September, 1925.-Little
attention has been aroused by the completion of the first exchange of
cruisers between the Imperial and the Australian Navies, but the event
marks a great step forward in the achievement of a common understanding
for mutual defense of the empire. The Commonwealth cruiser Brisbane
has served for about five months with the China squadron of the Royal
Navy, and her place has been taken during that period by the Concord,
lent for the purpose from the Mediterranean. It happened that the China
squadron was called upon for a busy time while the Brisbane was attached
to it, so that her officers and men have had experience, during the disturb-
ance at Shanghai and elsewhere, of the sort of duty which often falls to the
British Navy in acting as the world's policemen in the interests of human-
ity generally.
The exchange of duties appears to have given complete satisfaction. It
naturally raised the question of the exact purposes for which Common-
wealth ships might be used while on loan to the imperial government, and
this has been settled between the Australian and the home authorities. In
cases where the admiral of a squadron to which a Commonwealth ship is
attached has authority to use, at his discretion, the vessels under his com-
mand without reference to the Admiralty, for the protection of the lives
and property of British subjects, the Commonwealth agrees that such dis-
cretion may be exercised in the case of an exchanged cruiser without refer-
ence to the Australian Government. In other cases, where it is necessary
to receive instructions from the Admiralty before action is taken, the ad-
miral must seek direct permission from the Australian Government before
he can use their vessels. An event which would make this necessary would
be rare, but when it did occur the admiral would merely have to ask for
instructions from two sources instead of one.
The interchange policy between the Imperial and Australian Navies is
to be continued, and much good should result from it. More officers and
men of the Royal Navy can thereby have the opportunity of service in
Australian waters, and on the other hand the Australian personnel get
more chances of seeing the world and of improving their professional
knowledge by working with larger squadrons than exist in their own sery-
ice. The next exchange, which begins about mid-November, will be
between the Brisbane and the Delhi, the former coming to the Mediter-
ranean and the latter taking over duty in Australia. While no other domin-
ion is yet in a position to exchange a cruiser-although New Zealand may
soon be, when she has her second ship, the Diomede-the idea would seem
to be capable of expansion. What is there, for instance, to prevent the
South African surveying ship Protea from taking a turn of duty else-
where, in place of the Iroquois in China, or the Ormonde in the West
Indies, while one of the latter takes her place at Simonstown? Then the
Canadian destroyers Patriot and Patrician have made cruises in the At-
lantic and Pacific in company with imperial vessels; if one of them came
further from home, to the North Sea or Mediterranean, a destroyer from
one of the flotillas there could replace her at Halifax or Esquimalt. New-
foundland, too, has a sloop employed on fishery duties, the Lobelia; she
would be a suitable craft to spend a few months with the North Sea fishing
fleets while the Godetia or a similar vessel replaced her on the Newfound-
land fisheries. But, the great thing is that the idea of one common naval
service for the empire, with local units maintained by the various nations,
is making such good progress.
The Cruiser Program
Engineering, 2 August, 1925.-A government can make out a case for
warship construction by publishing tables in which the programs of other


  p. 2177 (#1133)                      

1925]
2177
Professional Notes
powers are set out and explained; or, by showing that certain units will
be obsolete at certain dates and by making proposals for replacing them in
time; or, by describing the strategical duties which the fleet will have to
perform in war. It is rather surprising that the present Board of Admiralty
has persistently ignored the third method of argument, which, if properly
employed, invariably builds up the strongest case. They could quite easily
have related their very reasonable proposals for cruiser building to the
concrete problems of imperial defense without committing a single indis-
cretion or divulging a single secret; and, had they done so, they would
have raised the level of recent debates, and have stifled a great deal of very
irrelevant criticism.
Trade routes may be protected by one of two methods. First, covering
forces may be stationed, permanently, at those points on the ocean high-
ways where merchantmen are bound to congregate; elsewhere, the bulk of
the trading ships may be dispersed by orders issued at the ports of de-
parture by the consular officers, acting under Admiralty instructions.
Secondly, all merchantmen may be grouped into convoys which sail, under
armed escort, at regular intervals, from ports at which they are ordered to
congregate. The first of these two methods was adopted at the outbreak
of war and lasted until 1917, when the successes of the German sub-
marines compelled us to adopt the second, and to escort all out-going and
in-coming trade in the Atlantic.
Obviously, then, the case for cruiser and destroyer programs is little
more than an elaborated reply to a very simple question : do the forces
which we at present possess suffice to protect trade by cover and dispersion,
or by placing it under permanent escort in those oceans where a possible
opponent has a chance of attacking it?
Although the weapons and types of ships used for attacking and de-
fending trade vary with every decade, the war has none the less set up a
fairly reliable standard for calculating the forces necessary for ensuring the
safety of British sea borne commerce. In August, 1914, the British Ad-
miralty had to provide against an attack upon trade in all the oceans of the
world, for the German cruisers were able, and did actually operate in the
Atlantic, the Pacific, and the Indian Oceans. The distribution of the
cruiser forces necessary to meet the danger was as follows:
Number of
Cruisers in the
Area to be Covered Cruiser Force Allocated
British
Squadrons.
Western approaches to Eleventh cruiser squadron.
the British Islands.
Western approaches to Twelfth cruiser squadron.
the Channel.
Bay of Biscay to the Ninth cruiser squadron.
Azores.
North America and the Fourth cruiser squadron.
West Indies.
Canary Islands to north- Fifth cruiser squadron.
eastern Brazil.
River Plate
H.M.S. Glasgow
Total for the Atlantic
24
To this total must, however, be added the cruisers on the China station (4):
the Australian station (4); the East Indies station (2); and the Cape
station (3); so that our cruiser defense on the outer oceans consisted of
thirty-seven units. This, however, was by no means the whole force al-
lotted to the purpose. The Japanese reinforced our patrol of the Pacific
routes by cruiser squadrons which varied in number, but which were never
less than five units strong; and the French Admiralty assisted us in the


  p. 2178 (#1134)                      

2178
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
north Atlantic with ten cruisers. The whole Allied force employed was
thus well over fifty units.
It is quite obvious from this that, if the post-war problems of imperial
defense corresponded to those which confronted the country in 1914, we
should not possess a cruiser force sufficient to cover the vital points on
the ocean highways. At the present moment Great Britain has some fifty
cruisers on active service or in reserve. If, therefore, the Admiralty con-
templated defending trade in all oceans, every one of these vessels would
at once be required on the outer routes, and not a single unit would be
left with the feet in home waters and the Mediterranean. The conditions
are obviously changed, and the reason for the change is purely political.
Germany was able to attack trade in all oceans and to supplement her attack
by another in the approach routes to the British Islands, which none of our
possible opponents in the postwar world would be able to do. But, as at
least two of these powers would be in a position to develop an attack upon
British trade, which our cruiser fleet would have to thwart, an analysis of
the strategical implications of a naval war with some of these powers is
probably the best test which can be applied to the Admiralty's proposals,
and, indeed, to our whole naval position. The cordial and friendly relations
which exist between Great Britain and these three powers make it possible
to pursue the analysis without impropriety. Its object is purely arith-
metical: to establish a proper method of calculating the cruiser forces
necessary for defending the imperial trade routes, and the assumptions
upon which the calculation is erected have nothing to do with the actual
facts of international politics. In view, however, of the possibility of
partial and misleading quotation, it may be well to refer to the suppositi-
tious opponents respectively as transatlantic, European, and Asiatic powers.
The slight obscurity will not embarrass the reader.
War with a transatlantic power would inevitably mean that the Canadian
route would be closed, and that the West Indies would be overrun; and
these calamities would be followed by a violent struggle for the mastery of
the Plate trade route. The enemy bureau of operations would detach
every available cruiser to attack trade in the Rocas, Fernando Noronha
area; and, by bringing pressure to bear upon South American states, would
endeavor to establish operating bases as near the Plate as possible, and so
cut the trade from its point of departure. As local influence would make
it quite impossible for Great Britain to do as she did during the last war,
that is to establish a secret coaling and operating base in Brazilian territory
at the Abrolhos rocks, the British Admiralty would certainly be compelled
to answer an enemy attack upon the Plate route by escorting all merchant-
men from the Plate to the Canaries area, and then dispersing them. The
opponent's fleet, as at present constituted, would not be able to maintain a
sustained attack in the approach routes to the British Islands; and merchant
fleets when past the meridian of 20° W., would be outside the zone of
attack. In such a war, trade defense would, therefore, be a combination of
the two systems, which, as has been shown, are the essence of any pro-
tective plan, covering cruiser forces, and permanent escort. The forces
required for the purpose would, of course, vary with the forces allocated
to the attack, but they are none the less calculable, within a certain margin.
At the present moment the navy department of the transatlantic power has
allotted eleven cruisers in full commission to the scouting and battle fleets,
and four to the Gulf of Mexico. An approximately equal force of fourteen
cruisers has been left in reserve, and we may assume that about this num-
ber of ships would be available for an attack upon those British trade
routes which were left open to us. This, however, by no means implies
that fourteen ships would be incessantly attacking on the Plate route. If
one cruiser is to be kept continuously operating in a given area, a total
force of two or three has to be allocated to it, so that the enemy would
be lucky if they could maintain three attacking cruisers in the Fernando
Noronha zone, and three more off the Plate. On the other hand, our pro-


  p. 2179 (#1135)                      

1925)
2179
Professional Notes
tective forces could not possibly be less than twenty-five cruisers. At least
two ships would be required at Bathurst and Sierra Leone, to convoy the
trade from the River Plate and, although the waters east of the twentieth
meridian would be fairly immune from attack, some forces would neces-
sarily be allocated to the route between the Canaries and the western
channel. We therefore arrive at the result that, if Great Britain were at
war with the first of her three possible opponents, the Admiralty would
have to distribute half her available cruiser forces to the defense of trade.
If every other ocean were denuded, some twenty-five cruiser units would
be left for fleet work in home waters and the Mediterranean. If, on the
other hand, the political atmosphere compelled us to maintain some vessels
in oceans not immediately threatened, as may well be taken as probable in
the hypothetical event we are discussing, this narrow margin of tactical
safety would be very much reduced. The conclusion to be drawn is that
our present cruiser fleet just, but only just, meets the first of our require-
ments. If our building program were modeled on purely strategical
grounds, any government could make out an unanswerable case for a very
considerable increase.
The strategical implications of a war with a European power are less
easy to estimate, because such a power would be in a position to make a
double attack upon our trade routes. With sufficient cruisers, she could
operate in the Atlantic and the Indian Oceans, and with her light craft and
submarines she could make a sustained attack upon the approach routes to
the British Islands between Cape Clear and the northwest coast of Spain.
The attack in these three areas would, however, be of very different in-
tensity. Unless her navy were very much increased, the attack of the
possible opponent in the Indian Ocean could easily be met by a force of three
cruisers stationed at the Gulf of Aden, at Colombo, and at Singapore. The
attack in the Atlantic would, however. be very much more severe. If the
existing Mediterranean squadron and its attendant auxiliaries represent
the force which this power considers necessary for keeping the communi-
cations open in that sea, her Admiralty would have available for operations
in the Bay of Biscay and the Atlantic: (1) A squadron of three old battle-
ships, one cruiser and seventeen destroyers; (2) nine cruisers kept in re-
serve; and (3) a submarine fleet of some fifty units, of which twenty
would be continually at work. If, moreover, her Admiralty succeeded in
establishing a composite force of cruisers and submarines on the west
coast of Africa, and in keeping them supplied, their attack upon trade
would be continuous from the coast of Brazil to the approaches to the
Thames. The resulting situation would so closely resemble that which the
Germans set up in 1917 that we should doubtless be compelled to do what
we then did; that is, put all of our trade in the Atlantic under armed
escort. The forces necessary for this purpose are thirty cruisers for es-
corting oceanic trade; sixty to seventy destroyers for escorting the convoys
in the approach routes, and an enormous number of mosquito craft for
setting up an anti-submarine patrol in the inshore lanes, and escorting the
coastal traffic. In the summer of 1917 some three thousand yachts, drifters,
trawlers, motor boats, and submarine chasers were employed in this way
along the coasts of the British Islands. As the enemy submarines would
operate from bases which flank the main approach to the British Islands,
and as the smallest coast defense type of submarines could be used in the
Channel, such an attack upon commerce would certainly call for a similar
effort from the British auxiliary feet, and immobilize an equal number
of small craft along the traffic lanes.
Undoubtedly, Great Britain, with her fifty cruisers and her 189 destroy-
ers, could detach sufficient forces to take the necessary counter measures ;
and, undoubtedly, the maritime resources of the empire, from which the
auxiliary mosquito fleet is drawn, would suffice. But, when the deductions
for meeting a trade war were made, the Admiralty would be left with a
dangerously narrow margin of cruiser and destroyer strength for the


  p. 2180 (#1136)                      

2180
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Mediterranean, which would certainly be the theater of a prolonged and
bitter struggle; and the cruiser forces necessary for cutting off enemy over-
seas trade would be very difficult to find. Once again, therefore, this
analysis of possible contingencies leads to the same result: the British naval
forces, as at present constituted, are sufficient for national security; but
no more.
The cruiser and destroyer forces necessary for a war with an Asiatic
power cannot be calculated in the same way. In both the cases we have
considered the enemy would be able to maintain an attack upon British
trade in at least one ocean, and against an important complex of traffic
routes. Any Asiatic fleet is unable to do either, and in referring to an
Asiatic fleet the only possible reference can be to that of Japan. In these
circumstances, as we have already in these columns made some anaylsis of
the possible employment of the Japanese fleet, we trust that, without of-
fense, it may be allowable to abandon our fictitious obscurity and refer to
that power openly in what follows. The Japanese fleet cannot operate in
the Indian Ocean; and although some persons believe that the Tokyo Ad-
miralty might set up some kind of advanced operating base at Jaluit, it
is difficult to see what they would gain by it; as, if they did so, they would
carry their cruisers away from the trade which they desired to attack. The
probable consequences of a trade war between the two countries would be
that certain routes would automatically close down; and that each side
would endeavor to keep some others open by running convoys through the
danger zones. On the British side trade north of the Yangtze would cease,
and an effort would be made to maintain the Shanghai trade against inter-
ference from Sasebo, by placing it under escort from Hong Kong north-
ward. The Japanese would probably make a serious effort to keep open
their oil route to Dutch Borneo, against interference from a British advanced
base at Sandakan. Each side would, in fact, find its available cruiser and
destroyer forces absorbed in purely defensive operations. The conse-
quences of a serious offensive movement by either party have already been
dealt with in these columns. It has been shown that, if Great Britain
ever attempted to carry naval war into Japanese waters, she would require
tonnage on a scale which would mean economic ruin, unless it were
especially built for the purpose. It has also been shown that Japan has
not sufficient maritime resources to launch overseas expeditions against
the British dominions, and, at the same time, to provide herself with food,
oil, coal, iron, and machinery. It is therefore unnecessary to calculate
whether our present cruiser and destroyer forces suffice for carrying on
a form of warfare which economic laws would make impossible, the
question does not arise.
The New Cruisers
By Sir Herbert Russell, The Naval and Military Record, 19 August,
1925.-The decision of the Admiralty to build two distinct types of cruiser
under the program of five years' replacements is most probably an ex-
pedient imposed by the necessity for economy. I image there can be very
little question that had the board been unfettered by any other consideration
than that of the highest standard of tactical efficiency they would have
plumped for all Class A ships, which we know to be vessels of 10.000 tons,
armed with 8-inch guns, and probably good for 35 knots. In the alternative
they have elected to maintain numbers at the expense of uniformity of
fighting value. The general impression is that the Class B cruisers will be
vessels of about 7,500 tons, but exactly what detailed loss of sea-keeping
and combative qualities this reduction of displacement by 25 per cent will
entail must remain conjectural. I do not believe that this partial reversion
to the system of graded cruisers which existed until the cruiser was prac-
tically evolved out of existence by the battle cruiser is deliberate, but I do
believe that it can be adequately justified.


  p. 2181 (#1137)                      

1925]
2181
Professional Notes
Warship design stands as the material embodiment of current tactical
ideas. At the present day tactical ideas of naval warfare are probably sim-
pler and more concrete than they have ever been since the advent of steam.
The Great War is now sufficiently remote to permit of a clear, judicial
perspective. The strategical situation has been greatly simplified by the
fact that there are now only three sea powers in the first-class category
as against seven before the war. The proposition before the Admiralty
is that we are called upon to maintain a nominal equality with the United
States Navy and a 40 per cent superiority of strength over the Japa-
nese Navy. This is the simple meaning of the 5-5-3 formula agreed
upon at the Washington Conference. The other naval powers have volun-
tarily taken up a purely passive attitude; their rôle is reduced to one of
national defense only, as expressed by ensuring the security of territorial
waters. Therefore, we have no cause for active concern in the policy of the
other naval powers.
Our fleet is "wearing out" and needs replacement. We can only measure
the extent and character of this requisite replacement by reference to what
the other two first-class powers are doing. The question of "friendly re-
lations" has nothing to do with the Admiralty view. This is a political,
not a military, aspect. The Admiralty is only called upon to contemplate
two great fleets-in-being, and to keep pace with their progress so that the
5-5-3 ratio shall not become a meaningless formula. There is no implied
threat to anybody in the principle of "keeping fit.” A nation must keep
fit quite as much as an athlete if it hopes to maintain an authoritative voice
in the counsels of the world.
I think we may define the present tactical period as the cruiser era. There
is considerable diversity of opinion as to the precise value of the capital
ship: there is none regarding the cruiser. The emergence of the Pacific
zone into the strategic vision of naval thought gives a new aspect to our
traditional conception of war at sea. Heretofore, we have environed Euro-
pean waters as the decisive area, the Narrow Seas in the foreground, and the
Mediterranean as the ultimate limit. Fighting beyond this area we have
looked upon as episodical, and as likely to amount to only a small collective
factor in the final issue.
Now this is all changed, and the change brings us to the prospect of
ocean warfare in its widest sense. The tactics which always presuppose
a base within a day or two's steaming are rather in the melting pot, and
the type of warship essentially designed to materialize this conception is
rather in the melting pot with them. Tactics must necessarily be governed
by geographical ideas. Some day we may find ourselves back at the base
operations principle. For a great many years ahead, as far as it is
humanly possible to foresee, we are very much at sea. Therefore, we want
the type of warship which will best enable us to keep at sea.
All of the great sea powers are likewise great maritime powers in the
commercial sense. The one follows the other: a nation with no trade
interests worth speaking about at sea is not going to the expense of keeping
up a big navy. Let us take this as an elementary strategical thesis. A
country possessing a great sea borne trade can be struck most effectively
through that trade. Great Britain and Japan could be speedily reduced to
submission by an effectual blockade, assuming such a thing were possible
to establish. The United States is self-supporting, but the destruction of
her ocean commerce would be a blow under which, even with her colossal
wealth, she would stagger very heavily indeed.
Commerce destruction-or capture, which has the same result-figures
more prominently in the present-day scheme of naval warfare than ever
it did before. Unquestionably, this is due to the effect of the German
submarine campaign, which, in spite of our dominance of the sea's surface,
came perilously near to starving us into capitulation. The doctrine of de-
struction automatically imposes the obligation of protection, and in the case


  p. 2182 (#1138)                      

2182
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
of commerce a similar type of vessel is suitable to both purposes. Hence,
this new rivalry in cruiser construction.
It is very unlikely that when the Washington Conference framed its
agreement it foresaw just where that agreement would lead. The real
purpose of the conference was to restrict naval armaments altogether. It
has only been successful in diverting the growth of them. Had there been
more foresight, I fancy the limits of cruiser displacement would have been
set lower; but probably this would have resulted merely in the construction
of larger numbers. Anyway, it is significant that Great Britain, France,
Italy, Japan, and the United States are building up to the fullest limits in
tons and guns, and, but for the Washington restrictions, this competition
must have resulted already in a growth which by now would have equalled
the biggest pre-war armored cruiser type.
The British Admiralty is being forced into reaction from this maximum
building. I say "forced” because it cannot be a matter of pure choice. A
big cruiser can do all that a small cruiser can do, and a great deal more: a
small cruiser cannot compete with size when it comes to gun power, sea-
keeping endurance, and (save at a serious relative sacrifice) speed. On
the score of fighting efficiency the Admiralty would have preferred that the
new program should consist wholly of Class A cruisers.
The conditions which produced such a wide variety of cruiser types be-
tween the passing of the Great Naval Defense Act in 1889, and the advent
of the three Invincibles in 1905, have been largely dissipated. As I have
said before, tactical ideas are now much simpler and more concrete. The
principle of using a sledge hammer for a butterfly is always to be avoided,
but we no longer admit that the best way to avoid it is to build a special
type of cruiser for every conceivable character of work. The system which
produced the first class, second class, and third class cruiser—with plenty
of variety in each class-was even more wasteful than the sledge hammer
threatened to be.
More than three fifths of our new cruisers (counting the five laid down
during last year) will be of the 10,000-ton type. It is always possible to
foresee tactical probabilities with sufficient certainty to provide for meeting
them in the sense of determining where the big ships and the lesser ships
may be disposed to best advantage. By keeping the Class B cruisers within
a more limited radius of action they should prove of just as much value,
under a similarity of conditions, as the bigger ships, always providing that
speed and gun calibers are maintained. They are not intended to fight any-
thing more formidable than their own types, and if they encounter anything
more formidable on the surface-they will have sufficient mobility to
deny action.
But, it seems to me that we shall pass through a long transition period
during which the British Navy will again possess three classes of cruiser.
We shall have the A class, in which may be included the Hawkins group;
the B class, in which may be included the Enterprise and the Emerald,
now completing, and the C class, comprising all of the light cruisers now
remaining on the effective list. History is repeating itself, not through
design, but through the exigencies of economy. As the light cruiser class
dies out it is difficult to believe that it will be repeated. Ships of 5,000
tons, with 6-inch guns, were perfectly adequate for service on the remote
foreign stations all the time that our main objectives remained in European
waters, but now that foreign 10,000-ton cruisers with 8-inch guns are ap-
pearing on those remote stations, they are clearly outclassed. The Blue
Water School has been revived by changed strategical conditions, and we
can no longer be satisfied to build with a view to maintaining the Admiralty
of the Atlantic-which really meant the boundary of the western approaches
and the grand junction of the middle sea.


  p. 2183 (#1139)                      

19251
Professional Notes
2183
New Treaty Battleships “Nelson” and “Rodney"
The British Interpretation of the Lessons of the Jutland Battle, by
Hector C. Bywater, The Scientific American, October, 1925.—Britain's
new battleships, Nelson and Rodney, are now approaching the launching
stage, and both will go afloat before the end of the year. Naval experts
the world over have long displayed a lively interest in these ships, due to
the rumored novelties of their design. They are known to incorporate all of
the modifications suggested by war experience, and especially by the Battle
of Jutland, so far as this has been possible within the limits of displacement
and gun power dictated by the Washington Naval Treaty.
Interest has been further excited by the reticence of the British Ad-
miralty, which, up to now, has declined to release any information about
the ships beyond their principal measurements. This policy of secrecy has
had an unfavorable reaction abroad. It has given a handle to publicists
and agitators who pander to anti-British sentiment, and these people have
contrived to generate a suspicion in the United States that Great Britain is
deliberately flouting the technical clauses of the treaty by endowing her
new battleships with unauthorized powers of offense.
A simpler and more convincing reason for the Admiralty's "hush"
policy might be advanced. It is conceivable that the British naval chiefs,
regarding as their exclusive property the hints on ship design which they
acquired during the war, are not disposed to share this invaluable knowledge
with other countries that did not pay the same price for it. Such an atti-
tude is natural enough, for the British Navy unquestionably bore the brunt
of the struggle at sea, and had far heavier losses than were suffered in the
aggregate by all of the other naval forces associated with it. Nor should
it be forgotten that the United States naval mission which visited Europe
after the war was allowed to inspect all of the latest ships, including the
then unfinished Hood. An American officer who made that tour of in-
spection has assured me that nothing whatsoever was withheld from the
cognizance of the visitors by the British naval authorities.
In the case of the new battleships a closer reticence has been observed ;
but while the fact may be open to criticism on political grounds, it certainly
does not justify the allegations of bad faith in regard to the treaty, which
have been made so freely by certain writers in the United States. It has
now become possible to furnish some information relating to the Nelson
design which, although not official, may be accepted as reliable. As will be
seen, these details completely refute charges preferred by American critics
to the effect that the ships are camouflaged aircraft carriers.
Dimensions of the Nelson and Rodney
Length overall
.........702 feet
Extreme breadth ........
........106 feet
Normal draft ..........
.............. 30 feet
Standard displacement ..
...........35,000 tons
Nine 16-inch guns in three 3-gun turrets
Armament
Twelve 6-inch guns in six 2-gun turrets
Numerous anti-aircraft pieces
Turrets, 13-inch
Belt, 12-inch
Armor (probable) .....
Heavy deck protection, particularly at
the forward group of 16 inch turrets
Speed (probable) ............
...........23 knots
Voted under the Navy Estimates for the fiscal year 1922-23, both ships
were laid down on December 28, 1922—the Nelson by Armstrong, Whit-
worth and Company, at Newcastle-on-Tyne, the Rodney by Cammell Laird
and Company, at Birkenhead. Industrial troubles have delayed their com-
pletion, and, if launched in the coming fall, they will have been on the


  p. 2184 (#1140)                      

2184
[Nov.
U. S. Vuval Institute Proceedings
stocks the better part of three years. They are scheduled for delivery some
time in 1927.
Their leading dimensions are: length 702 feet over all, extreme breadth
106 feet, normal draught 30 feet, standard displacement 35,000 tons. This
last figure refers to the weight of the ship as complete in every respect, but
without fuel or reserve feed water on board. When these items are added,
the gross displacement will be nearer 40,000 tons. The form of hull
resembles that of H.M.S. Hood, with the same clipper stem, a cut-away
stern, and sides falling inward to minimize the chance of direct hits.
Unlike the Hood, however, bulge protection is not fitted as an external
element, but is incorporated as an integral part of the ship's structure.
From the dimensions given, which are official, it is clear that the Nelsons
have not been designed for very high speeds. What they can do in the
way of speed is still confidential, but it will be surprising if they prove to
be much swifter than the 22-knot Royal Sovereigns. In other words, they
are battleships pure and simple, with no pretensions to the high mobility
of battle cruisers.
Their main armament has been a more or less open secret for some con-
siderable time past. It consists of nine 16-inch guns, each weighing about
106 tons, and probaly akin in ballistic properties to the American piece
mounted in the Marylands. Following the omne ignotum pro magnifico
rule, some foreign publications credit the British 16-in. gun with a length
of 50 calibers, but this is almost certainly incorrect. Very long guns do not
seem popular in the British service, which has only once employed a
50-caliber gun of large bore: namely, the 12-in. Mark XII mounted in the
St. Vincent and Neptune ships, and then with qualified success.
The nine 16-in. guns of the Nelson are carried in triple turrets, so that
Great Britain, after many years of hesitation, at last falls into line with the
United States and Italy, the pioneers in this type of gun mounting. It is,
of course, a compromise ; for, regarded as a unit a gun mounted singly
is more efficient than as one of a pair, and for rapid fire a two-gun turret
is equal to one of three guns.
Ammunition supply and loading operations are complicated by the three
gun mount, while the deflection set up by the firing of the outer guns has to
be corrected by a very delicate and not always infallible system of synchro-
nized discharge. The subject, however, is too large to be explored further
on this occasion. Suffice it to say that when the pros and cons are nicely
balanced, the three-gun turret tips the scales by reason (1) of its economy
in weight, and (2) its adaptation to other tactical requirements, which will
be dealt with later.
The triple turret is no novelty, save in the British service, but the really
striking feature of the Nelson class is the disposal of the turrets them-
selves. Contrary to all precedent, the guns are grouped together in the
forward part of the ship, leaving the after section denuded of heavy
armament. The first and third turrets are on a level, the second being raised
on a high barbette. This enables six 16-in. guns to fire directly ahead, leay-
ing the other three guns to join in as soon as the target bears a few points
on either beam. Over a fairly wide arc on either broadside all nine guns
have an unrestricted field of fire. But, if an enemy ship were astern, or bear-
ing several points abaft the beam, it could not be brought under fire
from the big guns. From the tactical viewpoint this is unsatisfactory, if
only because guns should not be mounted on the assumption that the target
will always be in a given position and never stray into one of the "blind
spots" or neutral zones outside the field of fire.
When Beatty made his famous 16-point turn at Jutland, racing ahead of
the German battle cruisers to lure them and their oncoming battle fleet
into the arms of Jellicoe, his big guns could not have fired a shot had they
been disposed on the principle adopted in the Nelson class. With this object
lesson before them, it seems odd that the Admiralty experts should have
decided to sacrifice stern fire altogether.


  p. 2185 (#1141)                      

1925]
2185
Professional Notes
That they did so was in deference to another and perhaps still more
important lesson learned at Jutland: that the really vulnerable points of a
capital ship are its turrets, barbette trunks, and contiguous magazines. At
least two out of the three British capital ships lost in that engagement were
sunk by shells that pierced the turret walls or roof and transmitted a flash
to the powder rooms. In the case of the third ship, the Indefatigable,
there is reason to suppose that projectiles, striking just below the upper
deck level, penetrated one of the barbette trunks and so gained access to a
magazine.
Other ships that came within an ace of destruction through turret hits
were the British Lion and the German Derfflinger and Seydlitz. It would
seem, therefore, that the most vulnerable part of a capital ship is no
longer the waterline but the gun positions. The effect of hits betwixt wind
and water may be localized by subdivision; but if a shell penetrates to a
magazine, or even transmits a tongue of flame that far, the whole ship is
placed in deadly peril.
It was in order to avert this calamity that the grouping of the main
armament on the forward deck was decided upon for the Nelson class,
since it makes possible the concentration of very thick armor on the turrets
and barbettes themselves, as well as on the waterline and topsides in way
of the gun positions, and the fitting of stout protective decks over this par-
ticular area of the ship.
Although the actual strength of the vertical and horizontal armor to be
fitted is not disclosed, these ships will probably be the most heavily-plated
vessels afloat. This feature alone serves to indicate how wide is the gulf
that divides current British practice in capital ship design from the principles
enunciated by Lord Fisher, who had little use for armor and pinned his
faith to big guns plus speed-a combination that failed to make good in
the fiery test of Jutland. Admiral von Tirpitz's dictum, “The first require-
ment of a fighting ship is that it shall remain afloat under fire," evinced a
shrewder appreciation of actualities.
The fact that the Nelsons are to mount the largest battery of 16-in. guns
hitherto placed in one ship, and are to have their vitals shielded by massive
armor plate, disposes of yet another fiction entertained by some naval
critics: that is, that the ships in question are to be virtually bare of armor
in order that they shall have the speed of battle cruisers. As a secondary
battery each has twelve 6-in. rapid-fire guns in twin turrets, stationed on the
broadside amidships. The housing of these guns in closed turrets is a
tribute to the murderous efficacy of high-explosive shell, the blast and
splinters from which took a heavy toll of men behind open gun shields in
every naval action of the World War. There were occasions on which a
few salvos of medium-caliber shell were enough to silence every gun not
mounted in a closed turret. Additional to the guns enumerated, the ships
will have a large equipment of anti-aircraft pieces.
Since the placing of all the main turrets on the foredeck pre-empts room
that is usually occupied by machinery, the propelling plant has perforce had
to be shifted further toward the stern. The boilers are, therefore, aft of
the midship line, and the single funnel into which all the uptakes lead is
situated aba ft the mainmast. This gives the type a very singular appearance,
further accentuated by the huge conning-towers and bridges, and still more
so by the substitution of a veritable skyscraper of steel for the customary
tripod foremast. Yet another grotesque touch is imparted by the "gallows"
mainmast, built up with four legs, three of which are topped by director
towers for the secondary armament.
The thrusting back of all this tophamper has done away with the spacious
quarterdeck found in dreadnoughts of more conventional design. It looks,
indeed, as though the deck space in the after part of the ship will be ex-
tremely limited, and it would be manifestly difficult to provide a landing
platform for airplanes. This fact is a sufficient commentary on the rumor
that each ship is to carry sixty or eighty airplanes.


  p. 2186 (#1142)                      

2186
Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Considering the U.S.S. Saratoga-a ship in which practically the whole
of the top deck, measuring some 880 feet by 104 feet, is left free for avia-
tion purposes—is equipped to carry and operate only seventy aircraft, it
would be interesting to learn where the Nelson could stow an equal number
of machines, to say nothing of the provision of landing facilities for the
same. Although positive information on this point cannot be quoted, it
seems more than likely that the Nelson's contingent of aircraft will be
restricted to a few light machines of the type already carried by British
and American battleships for reconnaissance and gun-spotting.
Such, then, are the two mystery ships about to be added to the British
fleet, in exchange for a quartet of older dreadnoughts earmarked for the
scrap heap. Comparing the Nelson type with the U.S.S. Colorado, it will
be found that there is little to choose between them with regard to artillery
power. The Nelson's extra gun is not likely to give her an advantage in
volume of fire, for the reason that the triple mounting, however ingeniously
planned, does not conduce to ultra-rapid working of the guns; and I be-
lieve that the umpire in a war game would not allow nine guns in triple
turrets a larger aggregate of rounds within a given period that eight
similar guns twin-mounted.
So far as ahead fire is concerned, the Nelson has a 50 per cent margin
over the American ship. In broadside discharge they may be rated as
equal, for the reason given; while in stern fire the Colorado would have
everything her own way. As for speed, the Nelson is probably superior by
a couple of knots. Failing publication of armor figures for the British
ship, no comparison of protective attributes is feasible. It may, however,
be taken as reasonably certain that the Nelson is less vulnerable at certain
vital points, such as turrets, magazines and boilers, though her average
thickness of armor may be somewhat less than that of the Colorado whose
protection is unusually heavy.
On the whole, the Nelson may be a better all-round fighting ship to the
extent of her additional few thousand tons, but her tactical supremacy over
the Colorado is by no means pronounced. Her design constitutes a some-
what radical departure from accepted canons of naval design, and it re-
mains to be seen whether it will come up to expectation.
The New Battleships
The Engineer, 28 August, 1925.—The construction of the battleships
Nelson and Rodney, which were laid down simultaneously in December,
1922, has proceeded at a leisurely pace, owing in part to motives of economy
and in part to industrial disputes. As regards economy, it will probably
be found in the end that the slow rate of building has tended to inflate the
initial cost of the ships, as it has done in the case of certain cruisers left
over from the war program. For example, the Effingham, which has been
eight years in the builders' hands, will have cost £2,175,000 by the time
she is ready for sea, while the Hawkins, a ship of identical design, which
was built more rapidly, cost only £1,636,745. Even the comparatively small
cruisers, Emerald and Enterprise, which have been in hand for seven years,
will average £1,575,000 apiece. The individual cost of the new battleships
is officially returned as "about £6,000,000," but it will be a pleasant sur-
prise if this estimate is not exceeded. In any case, it is uncertain whether
the figure in question includes armament. If not, the total bill for each
ship will be largely increased. According to naval reference books, the
Queen Elizabeths averaged £2,336,750 each, but, in fact, the cost was con-
siderably greater. A Parliamentary answer on May 4, 1921, gave
£2.473,103 as the expenditure on the hull, machinery, and equipment of
H.M.S. Queen Elizabeth, with an additional £541,000 on her armament,
bringing the total outlay on this ship to £3,014,103. As her sister ships
were completed during the war period, when labor and material charges had


  p. 2187 (#1143)                      

1925)
2187
Professional Notes
reached a high level, the average cost of the class must certainly have been
nearer £3,500,000. On the whole, it will be safer to regard the official
estimate of £6,000,000 apiece for the Nelson and Rodney as a purely
nominal figure, which may bear only an approximate relationship to the
actual expenditure.
The launching of the Nelson, which is to take place on September 3—
that of the Rodney will not be effected till January next-will be an event
of more than casual interest, for it is nine years since the last battleship,
Ramillies, went afloat in this country, and seven years since the last capital
ship, Hood, was launched for the British Navy. It is already clear that
the virtual suspension of heavy warship construction has not been an
unmixed blessing. Unemployment, with all of its attendant evils, is now
rife in districts to which the steady flow of Admiralty contracts used to
bring work and prosperity. If, on the one hand, vast sums have been
saved by the naval "holiday," on the other hand sums equally vast have
been paid out in relieving the workless victims of this international experi-
ment, to say nothing of the losses incurred through the depreciation of
idle plant. In view of the circumstance that this country, to a far greater
extent than any other, has specialized in the construction of warships and
naval armaments, both for the home and foreign governments, it follows
that the economic effects of naval disarmament have been felt here far
more severely than elsewhere, though the fact does not appear to be gener-
ally appreciated. That the building of even two battleships has done some-
thing to relieve unemployment is self-evident. In this connection some
official statistics may be quoted. The industries that have mainly benefited
are the shipyards and allied concerns, engineering establishments, ammuni-
tion factories, steel works, mines, railways, and shipping. During the first
three months after the placing of contracts four to five thousand men were
employed. In the first six months an average of 13,000 men was engaged,
rising in the second six months to 29,000, and subsequently for a time to
40,000. The average employed during the whole period of construction has
been about 21,000. By the time the ships are finished about £10,000,000
will have been paid out in wages. This money is circulating in Sheffield,
Manchester, Barrow, and Glasgow, as well as in the districts where the
ships are being built and where the government ordnance factories are
situated. It is anticipated that details of the type will be released for publi-
cation as soon as the first battleship goes afloat. Hitherto, these particulars
have been jealously guarded, though the official embargo has not prevented
the leakage of information into the press. The first description of the ships
appeared in the Italian semiofficial review, Revista Marittima, two years
ago, and the data there presented were subsequently laid before a Com-
mittee of the American Congress by Captain Hough, chief of the United
States Naval Intelligence Office. As they correspond very closely to fore-
casts which since have been published in this country, there is good war-
rant for accepting them as substantially accurate. This notwithstanding,
we propose to defer any detailed examination of the design until such time
as the Admiralty sees fit to lift the veil. Where so much mystery has been
observed, we may reasonably hope for something in the way of novelty.
Public attention has hitherto been attracted by the unique disposition of the
main armament, which is reputed to consist of nine 16-in. guns in three
turrets grouped on the center line in the forward part of the ship. This
is the arrangement which is understood to have been approved for the
four super-Hood battle cruisers, which were ordered in 1921 and cancelled
shortly after the Washington Conference. It has the advantage of permit-
ting the concentration of thick armor on the gun positions, which, as
Jutland experience showed, are the most vulnerable parts of a capital ship,
and at the same time it tends to simplify the lay-out of boilers and machinery.
The only drawback is the loss of stern fire; but while that would be a very
serious defect in ships planned for independent action, it is of less moment


  p. 2188 (#1144)                      

2188
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
in battleships designed to serve as units of a fleet which is able, collectively,
to train a large number of heavy guns on a target bearing astern. If the
new ships can fire six 16-in. guns ahead and nine on the beam, their tactical
value will be very high. While there has been much speculation at home
and abroad as to their offensive qualities, little has been heard about less
obvious features of the design. It would be of great interest to know, for
example, whether the ships are to be driven by steam alone, or whether the
possibilities of the Diesel system as a prime mover in large men-of-war
have been turned to account. It is already known that oil engines are in-
stalled in the mine laying cruiser Adventure for propelling her at cruising
speeds. The adoption of such engines for auxiliary propulsion in the new
battleships would not come as a surprise to those who are aware of the
practical interest which the Admiralty has displayed in Diesel development
for a number of years past. When the design of the Hood was under con-
sideration, as far back as 1916, it was proposed to fit two sets of eight-
cylinder Diesel engines, each of 4,500 horsepower, running at 185 revolu-
tions per minute, on the wing shafts, with three sets of turbines on the
center shaft. This proposal was subsequently abandoned, but the fact of its
having been made at that early date is very significant.
The strategic conditions prevailing before the war were such as to
exalt the importance of high speed. As the North Sea was then the pro-
spective battleground, it was obvious that an enemy in inferior strength,
operating from bases near at hand, could not be brought to action unless
our ships were faster by several knots. Today, however, the North Sea
requirements no longer affect the design of our ships. Any future war in
which the empire may be involved is likely to be an oceanic war, and the
ships capable of rendering the most efficient service will be those with the
greatest radius of action. The advantages of the internal combustion
engine in this connection are too well known to need emphasis. While it
is still inferior to the steam turbine in output of power per unit of weight,
and is therefore not yet suitable for adoption as the main propelling plant in
ships of high speed, the oil engine is sufficiently developed to justify its
use for auxiliary drive in large vessels, as has been done in H.M.S. Ad-
venture. To apply the system to 35,000-ton battleships would be a bolder
experiment, but there is no reason why it should prove unsuccessful. In the
projected light battle cruisers of 17,500 tons and 35 knots, which the French
Ministry of Marine is now considering, oil engines are provided for cruis-
ing speed and geared turbines for full power, and it is claimed that the
ships would have a radius of 12,000 miles at economical speed. British
firms are perfectly able to construct oil engines of the power required to
propel large battleships at the moderate velocities which are normally
maintained in peace time. But, in the case of the Nelson and Rodney, which
conform to the tonnage limit imposed by the treaty, the factor of weight
has necessarily dominated the whole design, and it may therefore have
proved impracticable to utilize the oil engine as an auxiliary means of pro-
pulsion in these particular vessels. This is but one of the many intriguing
points which will, no doubt, be cleared up when the naval authorities, in
their own good time, decide to tell the public something about its new
battleships.
Warship Maintenance Costs
The Army, Navy and Air Force Gazette, 22 August, 1925.—The Parlia-
mentary Secretary to the Admiralty states that the cost of a battleship
of the latest type, inclusive of torpedoes, ammunition, and so forth, is ap-
proximately £7,000,000. Of this, about £3,200,000 is due to labor, and
£2,100,000 to material, the remainder being due to profit and to estab-
lishment charges, such as rent, rates, light, power, maintenance, and so
forth. The cost of a battle cruiser similar to H.M.S. Hood would be about
£6,000,000, of which approximately £2,700,000 is due to labour, and


  p. 2189 (#1145)                      

1925]
2189
Professional Notes
£1,800,000 due to material. The corresponding figures for a modern light
cruiser are £2,000,000, £900,000 and £600,000; for a modern destroyer
£325,000, £145,000, £98,000; and for a modern submarine £400,000,
£180,000, £120,000. Particulars of the approximate annual cost of main-
tenance of each type are given in the following table :
Approximate annual cost of maintenance in full commission in home waters
at present prices.
Battle
Sub-
Battleship Cruiser Cruiser Dästroy'r marine
O
Nelson* Hood
Kent* Amason* Class*
195,000
180,200
109,900
17,500
13,200
Full pay, marriage and other al-
lowances, National Health In-
surance, and Unemployment
Insurance
........
Victualling, Clothing and mess
gear
.
.......
......................
Medical stores, etc. .............
Miscellaneous effective services..
Fuel and lubricating oils.
Sea stores .......
Repairs
Armament stores ......... .....
55,500
650
7,700
22,600
16,000
40,000
42,570
52,700
000
7,360
48,300
16,000
45,000
25,140
34,100
350
4,700
15,900
7,000
19,000
16,600
5,300
60
750
8,400
1,800
5,000
2,690
2,300
30
320
3,000
1,000
15,000
1,100
Total direct charges..
380,020
375,300
207,550 41,500
35,950
Liability in respect of retired
pay and pensions ..........
Grand total ..........
* Under construction.
52,940
432,960
51,970
427,270
31,300 5,200
238.850 46,700
2,080
38,030
Juggling with a Destroyer
Remarkable Salvage Work at Scapa, The Naval and Military Record,
16 September, 1925.—The end of the first phase of the salvage operations
at Scapa Flow was completed when the V -78 was finally beached on the
shore of Mill Bay. The vessel, the first of the smaller 800-ton type of the
ex-German destroyers scuttled in Scapa Flow, presented a most formidable
task when her turn came for salvage by Messrs. Cox and Danks, Ltd., of
168 Regent Street, London.
She had the unique experience of being hauled halfway to the surface
out of a bank of sand, towed in a rope cradle like a submarine about four
miles, sunk again in deep water, turned completely over on the sea bed,
raised again, and placed on the beach practically high and dry. This re-
markable feat was necessary owing to the vessel having "turned turtle" at
the time of sinking, and taking what the Germans thought was a final rest-
ing place, her keel uppermost, and bridge, funnels, and upperworks squashed,
and buried in about five fathoms of water on the north coast of the Island
of Fara, one of the Orkneys. During the years that she has been lying
there, a siltation occurred around the ship, resulting in about eight feet of
gravel and sand forming what might be likened to a chrysalis.
The floating docks were moored over the destroyer's position and divers,
by the use of powerful 12-in. pumps, had to "blow" channels through the
sand in order to allow passage for the 9-in. wire hawsers under the deck of
the ship. This was a formidable task, and in the process one part of the
destroyer had to be sealed and pumped with compressed air in order to give


  p. 2190 (#1146)                      

2190
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
a little buoyancy. The divers were finally successful, and the ship was then
fast in a cradle of wire ropes, and was hauled up out of her bed. Tugs
took charge of the dock with its captive destroyer hanging below, and pro-
ceeded to tow it steadily through Gutter Sound, which is now clear of all
the wrecks which have till recently encumbered this narrow strip of water.
In the greater depth of Mill Bay the destroyer was dropped once again to
the bottom in about twelve fathoms of water. The sinking was necessary
in order to give sufficient depth of water to turn the vessel over, and this
was done by skilful maneuvering in hauling up by one dock and paying out
by the other, the friction of the ropes on the one side of the ship resulting
in the complete turning over of the ship in its rope cradle. Once in its
upright position, the destroyer was hauled to the surface and beached in
very shallow water almost high and dry in Mill Bay, whence it will be
patched up and floated round to the firm's adjacent depot at Lyness for
breaking up.
The whole operation was carried out within thirteen days, the docks hay-
ing taken up their position over the wreck on August 26, and the destroyer
being raised on September 7. During seven days no work was possible,
owing to gales which swept the locality with hurricane force, and, of
course, special precautions were necessary to keep the floating docks secure.
The second phase of the operations will commence within the next few
days, when the first of the seven remaining destroyers of a tonnage of
1,300 tons each will be commenced, and these it is planned will be dealt
with in precisely the same way as the smaller eighteen destroyers now
salved.
The Plight of the Shipbuilding Industry
The Engineer, 21 August, 1925.-Evidence accumulates week by week that
the position of the home shipbuilding industry is such as to give grave cause
for anxiety to all engaged in it, whether on the employer or the labor
side. It is true that, judged by the test of output, the position disclosed in
the statistics issued by Lloyd's Register is not unsatisfactory, for the ton-
nage put into the water during the June quarter of the present year was
nearly 300,000 tons and it was 340,000 tons during the first quarter. Fur-
thermore, .Clyde yards during some periods of the present year have been
setting up new records of launchings, but the real tests of the position of
the shipbuilding industry are the quantity of work at present in hand and
that commenced during the period covered by the statistics. When those
tests are applied it is at once apparent that a period of intense depression
and an almost unprecedented percentage of unemployment lie immediately
ahead of the shipbuilding industry. The tonnage under construction at the
end of June, and the position in this respect is rather worse today, had
declined as compared with the corresponding period of 1924 by 423,000
tons, and if the comparison be carried back to the immediate pre-war
period, by more than 796,000 tons. The amount of tonnage commenced
during the June quarter, and since, has been an almost insignificant quantity,
Against the British figures foreign shipbuilders were able to record at the
end of June not only an increase in the tonnage launched, but an improve-
ment in the tonnage commenced and in that under construction. The
British industry has not only lost the old predominance of building more
tonnage than all the rest of the world's shipyards, but has been compelled
by the pressure of foreign competition to surrender a large amount of
building for foreign owners which in earlier years was a regular feature
of the activities of home yards. It has had even, in a few instances, to
admit inability to retain the custom of important British ship-owning in-
terests. Unless these tendencies can be arrested they spell disaster to the
home shipbuilding industry.
To some extent, no doubt, the falling off in the quantity of work in hand
is due to the marked decline in warship building and to the depression


  p. 2191 (#1147)                      

1925]
2191
Professional Notes
W
in the shipping industry, which has caused owners to defer the carrying out
of a large replacement program which would otherwise have been overdue.
These are not, however, the only reasons why the tide of unemployment in
home shipyards has risen to the average figure of 33 per cent, which is far
higher than during the slump period of 1908. On the northeast coast un-
employment in shipbuilding has soared to the appalling figure of 45.6 per
cent, and it is 35 per cent in Scotland. An important contributory cause of the
high percentage of unemployment in shipbuilding is that costs of pro-
duction are not only well above the prices which in the present condition
of the shipping industry owners feel justified in paying for new tonnage,
but they compare very unfavorably with the corresponding costs in con-
tinental shipbuilding establishments. Many explanations have been put
forward for the disparity between shipbuilding costs in home and foreign
yards. Continental builders pay less for materials, the percentage of skilled
to semi-skilled and unskilled labor employed is lower than in British ship-
yards, trade union rules and regulations have been relaxed, in some cases
a longer working week is in operation, and in certain instances it would
appear that financial aid is being given. Nobody suggests that there is
on the purely technical side either in respect of organization and equipment
or the skill of the workers anything really wrong with British shipbuilding.
Yet in spite of the publication of details of recent tenders of home and
foreign builders for new tonnage which show that the margin between
British and continental shipbuilding costs is being narrowed, it is still true
that foreign tenders are well below bare actual costs in British yards. Un-
til this position is redressed it seems quite unlikely that any real revival
in the home shipbuilding industry can be brought about.
Those engaged in the industry are not blind to the dangers of the situ-
ation. It is now some three months since, on the invitation of the Ship-
building Employers' Federation, the labor unions associated with the in-
dustry agreed to form a joint committee with employers to investigate con-
ditions in the industry to search for the precise causes why production
costs in home yards were so high in comparison with those which obtain
abroad, and to find remedies for a condition of affairs which threatens to
bring a great industry to its knees. This committee has, it is understood,
now completed that part of its inquiry which had reference to matters
relating specially to the British shipbuilding industry which need reform
and revision. The conferences have quite properly been held in private
with the object of promoting a full and frank discussion of the questions
at issue, and the bare official reports which have from time to time been
issued have stated no more than that satisfactory progress was being made
with the important work in hand. It is known, however, that while em-
ployers in the shipbuilding industry-adopting a different policy from engi-
neering employers—gave a guarantee when inviting the formation of the
committee that no proposals for reduction in rates of wages or lengthening
of the working week would be made by employers, the labor representatives
have been asked to give consideration to important changes in working
conditions, to a revision of trade union rules, and to a removal of the many
restrictions and anomalies which now exist. Employers believe, and it is
probable that many trade union leaders and workers share the belief, that
changes in working conditions could be made, which, without inflicting any
loss or hardship on a single worker, would have a material effect in reducing
the labor charges in the sum of construction costs. It is understood that,
to aid the discussions which have taken place on these points, employers
have laid their cards on the conference table and have disclosed the financial
results of work executed during a recent period, and that the facts have
come as a surprise to the representatives of the labor unions. The next
move is with the latter. They will, it is assumed, take steps to confer with
the union executives and afterwards decide at a general meeting of trade
unions on the lines of policy to be adopted regarding reforms, internal
to the industry, which can be carried out without reference to other inter-


  p. 2192 (#1148)                      

2192
Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ests. This would be the first step in the restoration of British shipbuilding
to its old position of unassailable superiority. Wider issues are, however,
involved. It is frankly admitted that production costs in home yards can-
not be reduced to competitive level unless the crushing burden of national
and local taxation is lightened, and the many industries on which ship-
builders draw for supplies of materials and fittings are willing to accept
lower prices for their products. That is an aspect of the problem which
should occupy the next stage of the investigation by the joint committee.
The work will open up very wide issues and is closely bound up with the
important subject of the relativity of wage rates. It is a question which
affects not only shipbuilding, but most branches of engineering and many
other trades. It calls for prompt and resolute handling, but politicians ap-
pear to lack the courage to deal with it, and the man who will undertake
this essential task is not yet in sight. If the joint committee of shipbuilding
employers and labor unions could evolve a method of bringing wage rates in
different industries back to the old relativity they would be performing a
national service.
FRANCE
French Navy Notes
The Naval and Military Record, 2 September, 1925.–Of the thirty-odd
new ships due to join the fleet in the coming autumn and winter, the mine
laying submarines Callot and Chailley and the 1,500-ton submersibles of the
Requin type are giving great satisfaction; the destroyer Tigre, of 2,400 tons,
is having slight defects to her Rateau turbines dealt with at Lorient after
highly promising trials. The Breguet-turbined Leopard is ready at St. Na-
zaire, and it will be a stiff fight between the two French types of tur-
bines. Parsons turbines will have a chance next month with the 8,000-ton
Duguay-Trouin, now ready for sea. Never before did France make so
determined a bid for speed, and excitement and expectations are great in
the service.
In the human element, in its discipline, devotion to duty, and valor, re-
sides mainly the efficiency of fleets. The French Navy is only second to
the British in traditions and historical achievements; it can claim, too, to
have “for a thousand years braved the battle and the breeze," and its
Breton seamen, trained from childhood to sea pursuits in the rough waters
of the Bay of Biscay, fear no comparison. Undaunted corsaries in their
hundreds have risen from the granite rocks of Brittany, fighting “on their
own" at times when the Paris government, having its hands full on land,
could not afford to attend to sea requirements. A question observers may
now well ask is: "Are such exceptional assets wasting, decaying?" On
the morrow of the Great War an unprecedentedly shameful scandal took
place in the Black Sea. There were on board battleships a hundred mu-
tineers, whose patriotism and judgment were too weak to be proof against
the Bolshevist propaganda ; an engineer officer even was stopped just in
time when he was on the point of delivering to the enemy the destroyer
Protet. The British fleet was exposed to similar propaganda, but manfully
withstood the shock; no British heart Ainched in its devotion to King and
country.
In the series of unedifying courts-martial on board the cuirassés France,
Paris, Provence, and so forth, that were the concluding chapter to the
Black Sea rebellion, it was pointed out that the mutineers were no bona fide
seamen, but young men from great industrial centers, more or less tainted
with anarchism, and who had hurriedly enlisted in the fleet with a view to
escaping the hardships and dangers of French warfare on the western
front. In the enquète that took place the Breton député de Kergue zec,
Rapporteur du Budget de la Marine, then stated that the Marine Française
contained, through this wholesale incorporation of undesirable landlubbers,
a high proportion of recruits wholly "refractory" to naval discipline, and
that the most urgent reform was promptly to rid the fleet of that odious


  p. 2193 (#1149)                      

1925]
2193
Professional Notes
rabble. As a matter of fact, this was done under the Leygues, Landry,
and Guist'hau Ministries.
“Never again !" it was said; the lesson will never be forgotten. Better
do away altogether with the Vieille Marine Française and forego all naval
ambitions than invest so much in an instrument de combat that would prove
untrustworthy when wanted. Only bona fide seamen, men having the voca-
tion de la mer, must be allowed to enlist in the navy, that must remain a
service d'elite, with room only for the best. These were noble ambitions,
praiseworthy intentions, which every officier de vaisseau worth his salt
fervently repeated to himself in setting his teeth; but, alas, politics, that
pervade everything in that belle Republique of ours, stand in the way of any
durable reform and progress, and, for a part, reduce to nil the patriotic
endeavors of our splendid corps, of officers de marine, who are getting
deeply disgusted at the turn of things and at the utter powerlessness of the
feeble politicians in power to save the vital interest of their country by
energetically coping with the cynical Bolshevist propaganda that is rife
in the ports militaires, arsenals, and in the fleet itself.
There has been an attempt at mutiny in the Courbet, and a court-martial
has just settled the affair in condemning to years of imprisonment four
Bolshevist ringleaders who attempted to foment a rebellion with a view to
preventing the meeting of the Toulon feet with the "fascist" fleet of Mus-
solinian Italy at Naples. Bad food and not enough furlough were the pre-
texts put forward by those mauvais matelots. A similar court-martial is
next month to take place in the battleship Paris, to be presided over by
Captain Lacombe, of the Lorraine battleship. Disquieting acts of insub-
ordination of a like nature took place in several other ships, and it looks as
if every French ship had on board a cellule communist, and as if there was
on foot a cleverly engineered plot to paralyze the offensive action of the
French fleet.
Officiers de vaisseau no longer conceal their misgivings. An officer of
the flagship Michelet (a twenty-two-year-old croiseur cuirassé, roomy and
well armed) writes thus to the Paris Yacht: "Il y a beaucoup de novices
dans l'équipage et aussi quelques mauvaises tétes qú on aurait mieux fait
de laisser en France. J'ai entendu des murmures, des gens se plaignant ....
une main ferme sera nécessaire . ... Si nous voulons éviter ce qui s'est
passé à bord du Jules Ferry' où il y a eu des difficultés. . ...” (“There
are plenty of improvised seamen on board and a few bad heads it would
have been more prudent to leave behind. I heard murmurs and com-
plaints about poor food and too much work. .... A firm hand will be
necessary .... if ugly incidents like those on board the Ferry are to be
avoided.. ...") In reading between the lines the true feelings of that
patriotic officer can be gauged. The situation is unprecedented in the serv-
ice; it speaks for itself. Not that on the whole the French Navy is not
a loyal, trustworthy, and thoroughly efficient force, certain in case of need
to do honor to the glorious tricolor. Things are not quite so bad as they
look; but all the same a small minority may cause plenty of trouble and
in an underhand manner interfere with the efficiency of the finest unit. On
the eve of her departure from Toulon the old Michelet, with her over-
hauled and refitted engines, did 20.5 knots with ease. In the Red Sea she
developed engine troubles, and took ten days to crawl from Guarda fui to
Colombo, and, still more limping, crawled into Saigon, the three engines
showing strong disinclination for their work, the central one stopping
altogether.
A firm hand in the command of ships and in the management of crews
can do little if there is not also a firm hand at the head of affairs at the
Paris Admiralty. Discipline cannot rest on sentiment, on good intentions ;
it cannot be improvized; it is easily lost, but takes long to recuperate; it is
the very life of the fleet, and nothing ought to be allowed to interfere with
it. These vital truths, unfortunately, our ever changing, improvized marine
ministers totally ignore. Naval officers in the exacting fulfilment of their


  p. 2194 (#1150)                      

2194
Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
professional duties punish, and politicians forgive, oblivious of the judicious
saying of the illustrious founder of the Marine Française, Colbert, to his
son, Marquis Seignelay: "Rappels-vous toujours que l'indulgence dans les
matiéres contraires à la discipline n'est pas une qualité." ("Leniency in
matters contrary to discipline is not a quality.") But, for our fine body of
officers, under-officers, and petty officers, the sentimental comedy in the
management might degenerate into tragedy. On the rock of patriotism, not
on the shifty sands of eloquence, are strong navies founded. Such is the
crux of the matter, as French, as well as English, history will testify.
The original views expressed by Admiral Sims in his somewhat sensa-
tional book La Victorie sur mer (Payot, editor, Paris) continue to give
rise to interesting controversies in the service. The eminent American
officer, naturally enough, writes pour la plus grande gloire de la Marine
Américaine, and so enthusiastic is his plea that he may be pronounced to
have deserved well of his great country and also of all naval students, who
will ever treasure his book as being the sincere expression of a faithful ally
and born leader. In this latter respect his remarkable pages in favor of
Admiral Lewis Baily speak for themselves. He speaks in high terms of
the strategic value of Brest, le port d'Europe le mieux situé, but, unwittingly,
also he somewhat minimizes the part played in the great sea struggle by the
French Navy. Contrary to his contention, the "depth charge" was a
French idea; and not an American admiral but a French one (de Marliave)
was the first non-English admiral in direct command of a British force.
French Navy Notes
The Naval and Military Record, 16 September, 1925.—The Duguay-
Trouin at Brest has her full armament on board, and is completing her
equipment and conditioning for her preliminary sea trials. Her two 8,000-
ton sisterships are shipping their turrets and 6.1-in. guns, that look small
considering the immense length (175 meters) of those cruisers. The 2,400-
ton Tigre and Jaguar (Rateau turbines) and Léopard (Breguet turbines)
receive this month their full complement, and next month will see all three
at sea. A slight change in the internal design will anew delay for weeks
the twelve torpilleurs of 1,500 tons. Of the seven 1,500-ton submarines of
the 1925 program two have been ordered in Lorient, two in Brest, and
three are expected to be ordered of private firms for delivery in the sum-
mer, 1928.
The important artillery and ammunition in the hands of the Riffs shows
the need for a close effective blockade. Like Spain, France is gradually
reinforcing her blockading division under the Paris with 500- and 350-ton
canonnières, well armed and splendid for that kind of work.
The amazing series of aerial disasters of the last few weeks has created
among the French public an outcry against aerial pursuits: "Plus de
dirigeables, plus d'hydravions! How much safer is the dear plancher des
vaches!” The American Shenandoah disaster, repeating that of the French
Dixmude, has similar effects: it causes a new French dirigible program to
be postponed sine die, and puts a stop to the dirigible activity that had for
some time past been resumed in the French aerial stations, that count be-
sides the 25,000 cubic-meter Mediterranée (ex-Nordstern), 10,000 cubic-
meter escorteurs and 3,000 cubic-meter vedettes. Cool headed aerial ex-
perts, however, are waiting for the squall of impulsive and incompetent
criticisms to pass and preserve their faith in dirigible gasbags, not wasting
time in deploring accidents, but devoting their mental power to avoiding
them in future. The loss of the Dirmude, though that fine airship was
caught in a storm and struck by lightning, was not unavoidable; it would
have been saved to France if an air port had been prepared in Algeria, as
recommended by Commander du Plessis. Moreover, means exist, and
they are now the object of interesting experiments-of safeguarding air-
ships against lightning. In the case of the Shenandoah, lack of experience


  p. 2195 (#1151)                      

1925]
2195
Professional Notes
with helium appears to be the direct cause of the disaster, as contended by
German experts.
But, where those German specialists exaggerate is when they impudently
assert that all dirigible catastrophies within the last few years are traceable
to the stupidity of English, French, and American aeronauts, and that they
would have been avoided if the lost airships had been built and steered by
worthy sons of Deutschland über alles. In other terms, in the dirigible
line there is no salvation out of German hands! Everywhere the word
"dirigible" is pronounced, a Teuton must compulsorily be consulted, and
things remain at a standstill until his lips let fall: "Es ist erreicht!" the
fateful words which German coiffeurs used to pronounce with becoming
dignity when dressing mustachios Kaiser-fashion. Germany is a great land,
but there is no room there for the sense of ridicule and of proportion, ob-
viously; otherwise, Germans would remember those eight Zeppelins that
once started baby-killing over the open cities of England and were dis-
persed and smashed by storm, five of them coming to grief in the Rhone
valley; nor would they forget that the grand Count Zeppelin, from cavalry
officer, became dirigible constructor at the School of Colonel Renard and
of Dupuy de Lôme. In the submarine line, too, France did pioneer work,
and showed the way to the world, and in particular to Germany; yet when
accidents (and they are unavoidable) saddened the hearts of our neighbors
and rivals, the idea never came to our ingénieurs to choose that very mo-
ment to crow over their superiority in uncontrollable fits of exultation re-
sembling Schadenfreude.
The lamentable loss of the Shenandoah does not seem to have dis-
heartened American experts, now intent on ascertaining the causes of the
disaster; and the undaunted Colonel du Plessis de Grenedan, the father of
the Dixmude hero, seizes the opportunity of stating anew before the French
public the case for dirigibles in war and in peace.
In his valuable report on the 1925 Navy Estimates the eminent Senator
Cheron emphatically condemns gasbags as being too costly and vulnerable
for the problematic use they represent, and he quotes figures from the
American Army and Navy Register, that reduce the number of German
dirigibles used in the war to ninety-six, of which twenty-nine were lost
through accidents and thirty-six through enemy action. In reality, states
Colonel du Plessis, Germany constructed no fewer than 143 dirigibles, of
which twenty-two were Skülte-Lanz, and 121 Zeppelins, and a close study
of their war utilization shows that they were the means several times of
saving the German fleet from disaster. The Germans, who know best what
they were worth to them, stick to the type, and project the construction of
several giant Zeppelins. For long range aerial scouting and transportation,
as well as for convoy protection and submarine hunting, dirigibles are in-
valuable, and cannot be replaced by seaplanes that, besides, costing five times
more than dirigibles, do relatively to the weight they carry.
Lighter-than-air machines have come to stay; their present defects can
be remedied and their security increased. No great navy can afford to
leave to others, still less to Germans, whose national industry is war and
plunder, the monopoly of dirigible progress. France, the home of the
spheric and dirigible balloons, can least afford to lag behind. Hence, the
decision of the Paris Admiralty to forsake nothing of existing assets in
this direction.
French aviation is silently forging ahead, though not without losses,
these being the unavoidable ransom of progress. Training, though not
quite so intense as in the British and Italian Navies, is proceeding apace
on up-to-date lines in all ports militares, a moderate toll of minor accidents
marking every week's aerial practice, especially as flying in all weathers is
part of the training program. A standard type of hydravian, robust in con-
struction, simple in management, makes up the bulk of our escadrilles
aeriennes, being on a par with the excellent army Brequet, that combines
speed, carrying power, and handiness. Very heavy bombardment machines


  p. 2196 (#1152)                      

2196
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
of various types, all with good points, are ceaselessly being tried and im-
proved. The largest of these to have successfully gone through the hard
Admiralty tests is the Latham, 1,600 h.p. quadrimotor biplane, that has a
span of 110 feet, a length of 67 feet, a full load weight of eleven tons
(with over three tons of fuel and ammunition). There is room for a
crew of five. The speed exceeds 160 kilometers per hour, and twenty-one
minutes are necessary for the machine to reach 6,600 feet. It compares
well with the Short and Fairey, dreadnoughts of the air. The value of the
new Latham giant resides in the fact that it is the result of the gradual
development of the Latham type, the oldest French seaplane, and of careful
experiments both at sea and on land. The wings are light at the ends and
raised with a view to facilitating floating on heavy seas. When on the
water the central part of the wings is six feet above the waterline, and the
extremities of the wings nine feet. The hull is twelve feet wide, with an
angular shape, favoring handiness and quick rising. All great French yards
are manufacturing hydravions. Huge monoplanes, with spans of 130 feet,
will shortly be tested at St. Nazaire. Views differ as to the compared suit-
ability of biplanes and monoplanes for sea service. Biplanes offer more
handiness and robustness, but thick-winged monoplanes, very wide in the
center and narrowing to the wing ends, have many partizans. The recent
St. Raphael tests with improved naval biplanes, despite the mishaps that
happened, demonstrate to careful observers that naval aviation has become
an important factor in the war game; strategy and tactics cannot afford to
ignore it, and maneuvers without it are out of date.
AVIATION
Airplane Replacements in the Early Part of War
Aviation (Editorial), 7 September, 1925.—There are times during a lull
in controversies and advocacies when certain points become clearer and
partisanship animosities lose their warping influence. This confession is
not the result of summer heat or contrition of spirit but comes from a
realization that perhaps the actual power of aircraft in warfare is being
overestimated by its best friends. And this overstating of the case for
aviation it will be seen may have nothing to do with the inherent possibilities
of aerial fighting at all. It is exclusively concerned with the material and
personnel problem. Here there seems to be a blank wall that is almost
insurmountable. To boldly ask a very pertinent question: "Will the next
war be fought in the air ?"
If any one wants to do some very disconcerting figuring let him take the
number of combatant aircraft that will probably be available at the start of
any war and then apply the estimated figure of about 75 per cent a month
destruction or to put it more correctly, replacement need, and he will come
upon a condition that should be given much more thought in aviation dis-
cussions than has been the case in the past. The public has been pretty
well informed that the life of an airplane in peace times is three years.
But, less has been said about the tremendous difference in time of war.
With naval vessels, the great sea engagements are few and very far between,
but with aircraft, zero hour is the beginning of a depletion at the staggering
rate of almost complete annihilation every two months. If a country should
start a war with 1000 fighting airplanes of exceptional war value and struck
with the full force that we hear so much about in military and naval dis-
cussions, it is generally conceded, particularly abroad, that at the end of
the first month there would only be about 250 of the 1000 available for
the second month's air combat.
When it is remembered that it takes at least two or three months for even
a well equipped airplane factory to begin to produce replacement aircraft in
quantities, not to mention the time to make engines the difficulty becomes
apparent. Meanwhile, the land and sea forces would have to be relied on,
it may as well be granted. But, when it is further admitted that these


  p. 2197 (#1153)                      

1925]
2197
Professional Notes
forces will be blind without air services the dilemma becomes more acute.
In fact, we are discussing what may be considered one of the skeletons in
every nation's aviation closet. Of course everyone will immediately urge
that there be kept in stock a reserve stock of airplanes sufficiently large to
keep our air forces in the air until replacements can be made, but when
it is remembered that the United States will have spent since the war a
half a billion dollars and not secured an adequate air equipment, the financial
element becomes a problem of the greatest importance. When it is further
remembered that only about 5 per cent of the men in any air force are
needed for actual flying duty, the personnel problem enters. It may be
unpleasant to face these difficulties but it is better to have them discussed
before a disastrous experience than to wait and have the facts develop from
neglect.
The purpose of bringing this serious question up for consideration at this
time is a belief that some solution to the problem can be found if the
importance of the matter is discussed frankly and not avoided. To inform
the public of the possibilities of air warfare and not emphasize the replace-
ment need is a dangerous procedure. Unfortunately, the production of
aircraft during the war has rightly or wrongly left a bad impression with
the taxpayers. We hear of little being done by the War Department to
gather into its inner circles aircraft experts, as is being done in nearly all
other industries. The development of our air power is being left to those
who have fought its battles against the greatest odds, and have only succeeded
in making the older arms realize that if they do not adopt aircraft it will
supplant their special interests. In fact, it sometimes seems that the older
services recognize the disadvantageous position that aircraft will be in
shortly after the beginning of hostilities and are counting on this fact to
discount the claims of the so-called air enthusiasts.
It would seem to be a good policy for those who are trying to arouse
a greater interest in things aeronautical to stress, during the coming aircraft
discussions, the following facts: That air forces require replacements of
materiel and personnel more quickly than any other known form of war
activities; that a country that is without replacements will find its other
forces operating blindly; that replacements cannot come out of stock but
take several months to be made; that it is cheaper to make provision to have
a continuous air action than to wait and try to provide the equipment in
the feverish heat of war enthusiasm. All of which is cast on the waters
with the hope that it may receive the earnest consideration that it deserves.
-L. D. G.
Bombing Accuracy
By Major B. W. Simpson, Ordnance Department, U. S. A., Aviation,
28 September, 1925.—In Aviation for July 20, 1925, there was published a
letter from Norbert Carolin entitled “Bombing Facts,” in which Captain
Carolin makes the statement that “Any bombing team that cannot register
80 per cent hits on such an objective (a battleship) from 9,000 ft. should
be returned to school for further training." This statement was emphasized
by heavy type and was considered of sufficient importance to warrant special
editorial comment.
While it is possible, of course, to obtain as high as 80 per cent hits on a
battleship target such a performance would be remarkable to say the least
and would be beyond the realm of probability. The excellence of training
of a bombing team is more reasonably measured by its probability of hitting
the target. This has been in actual tests considerably below the eighty per
cent figure mentioned above for the altitude considered.
First, let us consider just what area constitutes a battleship target.
Various tests conducted since the World War have proven that such a
target may be damaged not only by a direct hit on the structure of the
ship but also by a hit in the water alongside the ship, the distance within


  p. 2198 (#1154)                      

2198
(Xov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
which such a hit would be effective depending upon the weight of explosive
in the bomb. This broadens out the target considerably and it is assumed
that Captain Carolin is speaking of this broader target when he speaks of
80 per cent hits. This larger target for the largest type of bomb now
standard will be considered in the following discussion.
In measuring the accuracy of gun fire or bombing the “probable error
of the fire is used. The probable error may be defined as the distance
from the center of impact or center of gravity of a group of shots within
which half of the group will probably be found. In other words, any
individual shot or bomb has a 50 per cent probability of being within the
probable error and an equal chance of being without the probable error. In
the ballistics of guns it is usual to determine the probable error in range
and the probable error in deflection and use these two errors to find the
probability of hitting the target. The same method may be employed with
bombing but as the errors in range and deflection in bombing are essentially
equal it is somewhat more convenient to use the "circular” probable error by
means of which the percentage of bombs that will probably hit within a
circle of a given diameter may be determined.
The probable error of bombing has been determined from various tests
and is found to vary with the degree of training of the bombing team, the
type of equipment used and the weather conditions under which the bombing
was conducted. For instance, the probable error of night bombing in one
test was found to be approximately twice as great as that for day bombing,
although with proper illumination of the target night bombing can probably
be conducted with almost as great a degree of accuracy as day bombing.
Likewise, the probable error of an experienced team with the best equip-
ment now available may vary considerably at times from the average
probable error.
E. J. Loring, an authority on bomb ballistics, has discussed the subject
at considerable length and after analyzing a large mass of data has proposed
the following empirical formula for the probable error of bombing :
3 V Altitude (in feet)
Probable error (in feet) —-
- in which K is a factor
te
..
...
or depending upon the degree of training of the bombing team or "figure of
merit" of the team. Loring would rate teams according to the following
table:
K
Ultimate
.........2.5
Remarkable
........2.0 or more
Excellent ......................................1.5 to 2.0
Good .............
................ 1.25 to 1.5
Average ....
............1.0 to 1.25
Knowing the probable error it may easily be determined by calculation
what percentage of hits may be expected on a given target. Loring finds
the following percentage of hits may be expected on a battleship target from
an altitude of 9000 ft.
Direct Hits and
K Rating of team Direct Hits Hits in Danger Zone
Per cent
Per cent
1.0 Average
II
1.5 Excellent
20
39
2.0 Remarkable
28
The results actually obtained in service day bombing correspond to those
obtained by teams that would be rated as average with an occasional per-
formance that would be called excellent. We have had no remarkable or
ultimate bombing so far.
23
53


  p. 2199 (#1155)                      

1925)
2199
Professional Notes
In one series of tests the board of officers conducting the tests determined
that the probability of getting a hit on a battleship of the California class
was 32 per cent from 9,000 ft. altitude but in arriving at this result the
board converted the area of the target to an equivalent square and de-
termined the probability of hitting the square. Loring takes the actual shape
of the target, approximately an ellipse and shows that the probability of
hitting is nearer 23 per cent. In one of the battleship bombing tests two
direct hits and four hits in the danger area, a total of six hits, were made
on a battleship from a height of 10,000 ft., 25 per cent hits somewhat
better than average results. This is considered very good bombing, though
Captain Carolin would send all these teams back for further training. By
all means let them have further training, the more of it the better, but do
not let us delude ourselves that further training can raise the percentage
of hits to anything like 80 per cent.
Oo oo oo
ALTITUDE kam
SCALE
What causes the bomber to miss the target? A number of things are
responsible, some of them within the control of the bomber and others he
cannot control at all. His bomb sight places the pilot on the proper course,
measures his ground speed and corrects for it and indicates the instant for
release of the bomb. Other instruments give him his altitude and air speed
which are used in setting his sight. The bomber is responsible for aligning
the pilot on the proper course, correctly setting the air speed of the plane
and terminal velocity of the bomb, and the altitude of the plane on the sight,
correctly measuring the ground speed, and releasing the bomb at the proper
instant. The pilot must fly at the proper altitude selected for bombing,
obey the signals of the bomber for direction and keep his plane on as level
a keel as possible.
Correct setting of the scales of the sight may be assumed; errors in
altitude, air speed and ground speed determination, direction of the course,


  p. 2200 (#1156)                      

2200
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
level of the plane, and release of the bomb are inevitable. The bomb itself
has an appreciable probable error even if dropped under identical conditions.
Some of the errors beyond the control of the bomber and their effects at
9,000 ft. are as follows:
1. The bomb has a probable error of about 45 ft.
2. The altimeter has a probable error of over 200 ft., which corresponds
to a range error of 40 ft. This error also affects the accuracy of
ground speed determination.
3. The air speed can be determined only within an error of 5 m.p.h.
This error does not have an appreciable effect on range.
4. The effect of wind is only approximately corrected for by the sight.
A 10 m.p.h. wind will move the bomb about 20 ft.
If we add to these errors the errors of the bomber and the pilot we can
see why 25 per cent hits from 9,000 ft. is not such a bad score. To claim
80 per cent hits is ridiculous and unnecessary and would only lead to
erroneous estimates as to the number of bombers and bombs required to
accomplish a given mission.
Flying Ships
By Sir Herbert Russell, The Naval and Military Record, 2 September,
1925.–At a time when the long-discussed claims of economy appear to be
taking very practical shape, it is opportune to repeat the questions: What
is being spent upon airships? What is it further definitely proposed to
spend upon airships? What is the value of airships? The last point is the
one that really matters, and, indeed, in the answer to it the economic
question may be automatically disposed of.
Harking back over the brief history of aviation we shall find marked
phases in the conflict of opinion regarding the airship. The steady progress
made by Count Zeppelin, in the days when the military preparations of
Germany were realized to hold a sinister significance for this country,
naturally suggested a policy of response. For reasons which it would serve
no useful purpose to review, British efforts in this direction were not
successful. After the fiasco of the May Fly it was understood that no
further airship construction would be undertaken, the heavier-than-air
machines being regarded as best suited to the requirements of the fighting
services. The result was that when war came the airship did not figure
amongst our weapons.
The history of the Zeppelin fleet during the Great War is well known.
It is the history of a very few successful operations, all of negligible
military value, and of such general disaster that after the catastrophic
adventure in 1917, in which seven Zeppelins of the gale-swept raid were
destroyed, the Germans finally withdrew these great, costly, and fatally
vulnerable aircraft from service. It may be true to say that they had
carried bombing attacks further than would have been possible to aeroplanes
in their then stage of development. But, to put it in homely phrase, “The
game was not worth the candle." Is it going to be worth the candle now?
In some respects we have set war fashions to the world. In others we
have shown ourselves curiously imitative. I venture to believe the only
explanation that can be given as to why we are again plunging into heavy
outlay upon airships is because the United States has "taken them up."
But, the United States has a definite strategical idea in view, right or
wrong, and I am unaware of any such incentive in our case. The United
States thinks that aerial communication with her remote Pacific bases might
prove of first-rate importance in war time. Distances are too great for
such communication to be attempted by airplanes—at present. An airship
is capable of covering the 3,300 miles between Honolulu and Guam, but an
airplane, no.


  p. 2201 (#1157)                      

1925)
2201
Professional Notes
So, as I say, right or wrong, America is building airships, prepared to
discount the self-evident risk of employing them in view of the fact that
there is no other type of flying machine that she could so employ. At any
rate, it is a practical policy. What is our policy? Can anybody tell me?
There is a lot of talk about "empire airways," linking up the red patches on
the world map, and such like. But what have these Kipling-like heroics got
to do with a military administration which I take the Air Ministry to be?
Nobody will deny the wisdom of the principle under which the Air
Ministry fosters private aviation in peace time with a view to building up
a great reserve in the event of war. There is definite military purpose here.
But when we come to costly national undertakings to demonstrate the com-
mercial possibilities of the airship we are clearly going beyond any such
justification. For the military value of the airship has been subjected to
the most thorough test conceivable, and is proven to be virtually negligible.
Even as a purely commercial proposition the airship is quite prohibitive.
Her primary cost, her maintenance, her navigation, and her very limited
weight-carrying capacity put her beyond the pale of any consideration save,
perhaps, as a millionaire's freak. Admitted that she is able to carry a very
few tons a few thousand miles. The first thing the commercial consideration
demands to know is "How much will it cost?" The answer leaves com-
mercial consideration too flabbergasted to bang the door as it goes out.
Moreover, commercial consideration, when unrelated to military reason,
is quite apart from the province of a fighting organization, even when that
organization is concerned to bolster up its challenged utility. This brings
me back to the question: What is the value of the airship? About the
only practical suggestion I have come across in this direction is that she
might prove of service in the role of an aeronautic aircraft-carrier. That
is to say, she might carry a limited number of baby planes upon her
structure and launch them at a spot where they might hope to do effective
work. The idea is feasible, but the obvious objections immediately crowd
in upon it. Such a purpose necessitates penetration of a hostile zone, and
then promptly arises the question of the colossal target. Probably the baby
planes would have their hands much too full in trying to protect their
gigantic mother to attempt anything else.
But even this presupposes that the airship is able to fulfil her mission as a
plane carrier—which I venture to think is presupposing rather a lot. A
gale of wind may well deliver her into the enemy's hands; a thunderstorm
may repeat the sublime spectacular horror of Cuffley. No structure de-
signed for human transport is—and must always remain-more at the
mercy of the elements than the airship. Any increase in motive power
means an enormous ratio of increase in dimensions; consequently a larger
area for the wind to lash and a bigger mark for the lightning to find. As
a scientific struggle it is all very interesting like the efforts to climb
Everest or to reach the North Pole. As a military proposition is it, or
can it ever be, worth while? A fleet dirigible suggests a valuable medium
for reconnaissance. I say "suggests," because it could only be valuable if
it were the sole means of accomplishing the purpose. But the navy, realiz-
ing more fully the atmospheric conditions at sea, prefers to pin its faith
to the aircraft carrier and her swift little brood, which can travel with
the speed of a train into the teeth of a gale that would send an airship
bodily to leeward. The Navy does not want to be bothered with the great
airship. It does not believe in the great airship. The army will have noth-
ing to do with it. Who wants it?
This question is not only legitimate; it is distinctly pressing at a time
when the Admiralty are saving money on wages, victualling, and marriage
allowance in order to pay for new warships, which we really do want.
A new nose is being fitted to R-33, and she is shortly to undertake further
aerodynamic tests, with a view to providing data required in connection
with the construction of the new 5,000,000 cubic feet ships. I should have
thought that her last exploit provided data enough. But what is the par-


  p. 2202 (#1158)                      

2202
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ticular purpose for which these enormous airships are being built at all?
The disabilities of the type are quite as obvious to the Ministry of Air
as they are to anybody else who gives any intelligent attention to the
subject-indeed, it is reasonable to suppose that they should be rather
more so.
What, then, is the policy they represent? Are they designed as links
of commerce, to popularize the ministry in the eyes of imperialists? Or
are they really intended at war weapons? If so, what is their contem-
plated rôle? This is not a time for highbrow talk about "contrary to the
public interest" by way of answering a question which it is distinctly in the
public interest should be asked. The public interest demands a justification
for all heavy expenditure of public money these times. Aerodynamics
may be a very interesting scientific study, but are we to spend some millions
on pursuing it to the length of finally demonstrating the unsuitability of the
airship to offensive or defensive warfare? One might have thought that
point was settled by the May Fly fiasco, and clinched by the fate of the
Zeppelins during the war. We are never going to overcome the defect of a
wrong principle by experimenting with methods. The mobile balloon is a
wrong principle. Her margin of risk must always remain so high as to
confer the quality of the forlorn hope upon any military enterprise for
which she may be detailed. Beyond the one advantage of a capacity for
longer fight, how is she superior to the aeroplane? Her buoyancy declines
rapidly as she ascends. Five million cubic feet of hydrogen could lift about
170 tons at the earth's surface; at 12,000 feet of altitude it could barely
sustain 100 tons. In war time rapid ascent to the maximum possible alti-
tude may often prove vital to the salvation of such a huge target. There-
fore, "disposable weight" must be reckoned with a view to permitting of
such rapid ascent.
The aerial liner is a possibility of the future. The military airship has
already been very effectively tested and found wanting. Is the Air Ministry
simply spending public money in order to experiment in a highly specula-
tive commercial proposition? Suppose the Admiralty were to begin build-
ing ocean-going steam trawlers in order to encourage British fisheries.
It is not difficult to anticipate the verdict of the country upon such a
procedure. Of course, I do not say that the Air Ministry is doing any-
thing of the kind. I am merely asking. I want to know-like a great
many other people—why these enormous, costly, airships are being built
at all? And I should like to know what each one costs in her own struc-
ture, in aerodromes and mooring masts, in gas reservoirs, and in ground
hands to manipulate her?
ENGINEERING
“Propulseur Trompe" for Airplanes
The Engineer, 18 September, 1925.-In our issue of January 16. 1920,
reference was made to a new apparatus invented by M. H. F. Mélot for
propelling airplanes with the pressure produced by exhaust gases directed
in such a way as to create the rapid displacement of a large volume of air.
Briefly stated, paraffin was burned in a combustion chamber lined with
fire bricks, and the gases issuing from a tuyère passed through a number
of funnel shaped conduits or injectors, each one increasing in size and con-
sequently augmenting the volume of induced air until, on leaving the ap-
paratus, the volume and velocity were sufficient to create a high propulsive
effort. The original device was somewhat crude and cumbersome, neces-
sitating as it did a combustion chamber with oil burner and a large air
compressor, but it served to demonstrate that it was possible by this system
to suppress the engine and propeller and to replace petrol by crude oil
as fuel. The injectors or trompes having been proved a satisfactory ex-
pedient, it was found necessary to simplify and lighten the general arrange-
ment, and after nearly five years' experimental work M. Mélot has succeeded


  p. 2203 (#1159)                      

1925]
2203
Professional Notes
in evolving a much more practical power generating plant which suppresses
the fire brick lined combustion chamber and necessitates only a small and
light compressor for occasional working.
The new device consists of a horizontal cylinder, inside which there
are two walls forming a chamber. In each wall is a sparking plug for
starting the engine with gas injected under pressure. There are three
series of annular ports, the central orifices placing the carburetter into
communication with the chamber, and the end ports being in communica-
tion with an exhaust pipe converging to the first cone of the propulseur.
Inside the cylinder is a piston which moves freely from one end to the
other. It has concave faces and sleeves with ports corresponding with
those in the cylinder. The arrangement constitutes a simple type of two-
cycle engine working with high compression. It is started by injecting
under pressure the gas mixture, which is ignited by one of the sparking
plugs. The speed of the piston is sufficient to compress the gas to the
point of auto-ignition and the engine continues to run without the com-
pressor and the sparking plugs. The piston sleeves are arranged to open
the exhaust ports at such a point as to ensure the burnt gases entering
the exhaust pipe at the highest velocity. The average pressure in the ex-
haust pipe is equal to the average pressure of the cycle. As, moreover, the
ndo
-
-
-
TIIT PUTIN
IMPROVED FORM OF THE MELOT PROPULSEUR TROMPE
explosion takes place under the most favorable conditions, with a com-
pression to the point of auto-ignition, it is claimed that the average
pressure is higher than in an ordinary four-cycle engine.
The rest of the apparatus has undergone little change. The exhaust gases
pass from a tuyère through a succession of four injectors, each being larger
than the preceding one and therefore drawing through a larger volume of
air, which becomes considerable when the burnt gases and air pass finally
through the large fourth injector. The reaction exerted by this mass of
gas and air is declared to give to the apparatus a satisfactorily high effi-
ciency. To provide for the diminishing density of the air at high altitudes
it is proposed to employ a light compressor. Tests carried out with the
apparatus are said to have shown that the total weight is less than 1 kilo.
per horsepower. So far only laboratory tests have been carried out with the
Mélot Propulseur Trompe, and we are precluded from giving a fuller
description of the apparatus pending the completion of tests which are now
being undertaken by the Service Technique de l'Aéronautique.
The Whaley Constant Pressure Qil Engine
The Nautical Gazette, 29 August, 1925.—The Sun Shipbuilding and Dry
Dock Company of Chester, Pennsylvania, has completed the building of the
new Whaley oil engine, which was invented by Wililam B. Smith Whaley


  p. 2204 (#1160)                      

2204
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
and designed by Charles A. Muller of the Whaley Engine Patents, Inc.
This engine was privately shown to stockholders and interested engineers,
at which time it was operated on air only for the shop tests.
Ninth of a series built during the past several years for the purpose
of perfecting a new power cycle, this Whaley engine is described as a
single-acting four-cylinder two-cycle machine designed to develop 750 h.p.
It is a vertical reversing engine, conventional in design though following the
best steam engine practice. It is distinguished from all other heavy oil
engines in this country and abroad by the fact that the cylinder clearance,
at the time of the fuel injection, is opened by a piston valve to com-
munication with a static receiver having many times the capacity of the
cylinder clearance. This presents a condition exactly the opposite to
that in all present internal combustion engines, where the basis of opera-
tion is on a trapped charge. In the Whaley engine, the piston valve to the
static receiver is open as long as the fuel is being injected.
The Whaley engine has the usual form of port scavenging supplemented
by high-pressure scavenging and supercharging through the top of the
cylinders. The last two operations are carried out with air at a pressure
of about forty-five pounds per square inch. The air pumps for the super-
scavenging and supercharging operation are contained in the lower part
of the power cylinders. There is a supplemental scavenging air-pump
formed in the upper part of the frame in which operates a piston placed
on top of the crosshead. Two cylinders are cast in block with a valve
chest between. The air from the pumps just described is used either in
direct line or is transferred through the ports in the valve chest to the
opposite cylinder.
The air is controlled by piston valves, one working inside the other
and both being actuated by links similar to those used on locomotives and
reversing marine steam engines. By linking up, the opening of the piston
valves is made to synchronize to the period of fuel injection in such a way
that, for practical purposes, combustion takes place during the entire time
that the valve is open. The practical effect in the operation of the
engine will be that fuel will be supplied to the point of cut-off of the piston
valve, which will be open for the power necessity of the engine. The
result diagram will, therefore, be that of the steam engine so far as the
admission and point of cut-off are concerned. The main purpose of the
clearance reservoir is to maintain the maximum working pressure desired,
which, in the case of the present engine, is 350 pounds per square inch. As
this is the normal compression-pressure of each working cylinder, it is
also the normal pressure for the receiver or reservoir.
Under normal running conditions, no variation in pressure is expected
no matter what the conditions of loading and fuel injection may be. In
floating the receiver on the compression space, there will be but little
transfer of air, heat or pressure through the valves. The receiver serves as
an asorber in case of any rise in pressure in the cylinder through any
cause whatever. By an ingenious arrangement of the valves, the com-
pression-space port is made to serve successively for the introduction of
the superscavenging, and supercharging and to establish communication
with the reservoir or receiver during the combustion period.
A novel arrangement of fuel pumps and fuel admission valves is used.
The fuel pump is placed on top of the valve chest and is driven directly
from the valve stem. The pumps deliver the charge of oil for each
stroke directly into each individual fuel valve, there being no piping what-
ever employed. The pressures will be between 4,000 and 8,000 pounds per
square inch. The action of the pumps synchronizes with the action of the
valves, both being operated from the same valve-stem, thereby assuring
the maintenance of relation between fuel injection and duration of the
valve opening to cut-off. Because of this construction, there practically
will be no rise in pressure in the cylinders or in the system beyond that
due to compression.


  p. 2205 (#1161)                      

1925)
2205
Professional Notes
The fundamental action of the Whaley engine is entirely different from
that of any of the present oil or Diesel engines. All other present-day
engines operate with a trapped charge of air which is confined in closed
compression space into which the fuel is injected, and there is always a
rise in pressure after combustion takes place. In the Whaley engine, even
early timing of the fuel admission will cause no appreciable pressure-rise
above the capacity of the pressure valves into the receiver.
Maintaining the maximum pressure to a definite figure allows the carry-
out of a program for the design of relatively light weight oil engines.
It is expected that the Whaley engine will weigh less than 100 pounds per
horsepower, a figure which represents a substantial improvement over
current practice. Also, due to the maximum pressure principle, the Whaley
engines, for all sizes of power, can be built at approximately the same
weight per horsepower as is the case with the steam engines. This means
that the weight of less than 100 pounds per horsepower will apply to
Whaley engines of all sizes. This feature will make the development of the
Whaley engine much more valuable as an economic factor, the larger the
units are built, especially so as with the present Diesel and heavy oil engines
weights increase progressively as the power to be delivered increases.
The Whaley engine at the Sun Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company's
plant is now undergoing its shop tests and it is expected that the trials
will be completed in time to present all technical details of the engine
and the results of performance before the winter meetings of the national
engineering societies.
Those who have inspected the engine have stated that it closely resembles
a vertical steam engine of sturdy design, but having four high-pressure
cylinders. They have remarked the absence of cams, rollers and gearing
associated with internal combustion engines and have complimented the
inventor and designer on the production of a new internal combustion engine
as simple in construction as a well built steam engine and one that can
apparently be operated by anyone versed in steam engine practice.
The Whaley Engine Patents Co., Inc., own the patents for the Western
Hemisphere. The International Whaley Engine Corporation own the
patent rights for the Eastern Hemisphere. The American Locomotive Com-
pany own the exclusive license for the use of the Whaley engine on rails
for the Western Hemisphere. The Sun Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Com-
pany, Chester, Pennsylvania, has a contract for building these engines for
marine and stationary use in the United States. The engineering firm of
Parish and Tewksbury, Inc., New York, has had executive charge of this
development since February, 1924.
The Metering of Fluids
Engineering, 18 September, 1925.-One of the collateral advantages as-
sociated with the use of electricity for lighting or power is the ease and
accuracy with which it can be metered. The station engineer can easily
determine with practically laboratory precision the output of his genera-
tors, but it is far less easy to fix with corresponding rigor the steam rate
of his turbines. In the discussion on boiler trials held last winter at the
Institution of Civil Engineers, most of the speakers held to the view that
the only reliable method of determining the figure in question lay in the
use of calibrated tanks to receive the condensate from the turbines. As
we suggested at the time in commenting on the debate, this distrust of
meters was unduly pessimistic, though it cannot, of course, be denied, that
the engineer who purchases the first meter that offers and installs it at the
first convenient spot, is simply asking for trouble.
In opposition to the general view, J. L. Hodgson maintained that steam
and water meters were not merely convenient, but that properly designed
and intelligently located they might be fairly classed among instruments
of precision. In a paper entitled “The Orifice as a Basis of Flow Measure-
ment,” contributed to the “Proceedings of the Institute of Civil Engineers,"


  p. 2206 (#1162)                      

2206
Vov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
and now published, Mr. Hodgson gives particulars of the long and pains-
taking investigation into the discharge through orifices on which he based
his claims. The research extended over a period of sixteen years, and in
it was thoroughly examined, the effects on orifice flow of different ratios
of pipe diameter to orifice diameter, of the rate of flow, and of the physical
properties of the fluids. Accurate tests were made with orifices fixed on
mains ranging from 38 in. up to 44 in. in diameter, and in the case of elastic
fluids with pressure ratios ranging from nearly unity up to the critical
value. The results have been plotted as curves, the abscissæ in some cases
being Reynolds number, and in others the pressure ratio, or the ratio of pipe
diameter to orifice diameter. The complete set provides coefficients for cal-
culating discharges which cover all practical cases. In the plots made with
Reynolds number as abscissæ it is noticeable how observations made with
air fall on the same curves as results obtained with various mixtures of
water and glycerine.
Mr. Hodgson is a strong advocate of the simple square edged hole in
a fairly thick plate, as opposed to nozzles and sharp edged orifices. The
simple square edged hole can easily be reproduced with very great precision,
which is not the case with its rivals. The use of a relatively thick plate
is recommended because it has been found that when, as in some makes
of steam meter the orifice plate is only 1/32 in. thick for an 8-in. pipe, it is
very liable to buckle in service. Mr. Hodgson holds that even for a 3-in.
pipe the orifice plate should not be less than 1/16 in. to 18 in. in thickness.
On pulsating flows all orifice centers are liable to give an inaccurate read-
ing. In the case of liquids the pulsations can be damped out by the use
of air vessels or break pressure tanks, but with gases pressure waves may
travel up and down the pressure pipe and cause spurious readings. This
difficulty does not arise with steam because the pressure pipe fills with water
which damps out the pressure waves. For air metering Mr. Hodgson rec-
ommends either that the pressure be reduced to that of the atmosphere
before the fluid reaches the meter, or that sufficient receiver capacity and
throttling be introduced between the source of the pulsations and the
meter.
No matter how carefully an "orifice" meter has been designed and
calibrated, its value may be entirely discounted if it be fixed in the neigh-
borhood of a valve, or a bend or other discontinuity in the pipe line
When a fluid passes round a bend it leaves it in a very disturbed state,
and the character of the flow in the straight pipe beyond the bend is
abnormal for some considerable distance. Now, the pressure recorded by
a gauge fixed to a pipe through which fluid is moving in turbulent flow
can never be the true static head. This follows because in turbulent flow
a particle of the fluid is at one moment close to the wall, and at the next
is near the center of the pipe. Radial momentum has, therefore, been
destroyed and generated at the wall. Hence, the gauge reading must be
correspondingly greater than the true static head. In most cases the error
involved is negligible as the correction is small. Where, however, small
differences of head are to be measured, the pressure represented by the
destruction and generation of radial momentum may become of importance.
In the case of a fluid in normal flow through a straight pipe, the head due
to this momentum effect will be constant along the whole length of the
conduit, and a differential gauge will give a true value for the difference
in static head. If, however, the flow be more turbulent at one part of the
pipe than at a succeeding part, the correction for the radial-momentum
effect will no longer cancel out, and the gauge will give inaccurate read-
ings. It is the effect above described which is responsible for coefficients
of discharge in excess of unity, which have at times been recorded with
extemporized Venturi meters operated at very low rates of discharge. It
is thus important in the case of all meters of the orifice type that there shall
be a fair run of straight pipe in front of the meter.


  p. 2207 (#1163)                      

1925]
Professional Notes
2207
MERCHANT MARINE
Commissioner Haney and Admiral Palmer
The Nautical Gazette, 5 September, 1925.—The differences between the
Shipping Board and Fleet Corporation have developed into an open defiance
of President Coolidge's wishes by Commissioner Bert E. Haney, the
Pacific Coast member of the board. From the beginning of his interest
in shipping matters President Coolidge has insisted that the Fleet Corpora-
tion be given sole authority in the operation of the government's ships
and that the board content itself with acting in a regulatory capacity, and
he made recommendations accordingly in his address to Congress last fall.
How the members of the board at first objected, then partially met the
President's wishes, and later withdrew the delegation of authority only to
confer it again a few weeks ago is now a matter of history. It now
develops, however, that in all the discussions Commissioner Haney con-
sistently opposed the vesting of such authority in Admiral Palmer and even
went so far as to oppose the re-appointment of Admiral Palmer. This
attitude is in direct opposition to President Coolidge's wishes that the
Fleet Corporation be given control over the government's ships and ser-
vices, but it now appears that Commissioner Haney has endeavored to
bring about Admiral Palmer's removal. This was too flagrant a defiance
of the presidential wishes to pass unnoticed and accordingly President
Coolidge sent a telegram on Thursday of last week requesting Commis-
sioner Haney's resignation from the board. Commissioner Haney has
refused to resign, and it remains to be seen what President Coolidge's next
move will be.
The situation has some unusual features, and at least one of its effects
will be the forcing of the shipping issue sharply before the next Congress.
Commissioner Haney cannot hope to retain his seat on the board by defying
the President's request, for the President has the matter in his own hands.
Commissioner Haney is serving under a recess appointment and if he
persists in his refusal to resign President Coolidge can submit some other
name to Congress for confirmation and Commissioner Haney will be
automatically supplanted. The real issue, however, is found in the policy
involved. President Coolidge bases his request for the resignation on the
ground that Commissioner Haney has gone contrary to an understanding
that he had with the President that he support Admiral Palmer. Com-
missioner Haney, on the other hand, contends that he had no such under-
standing with the President, that the President knew of his opposition to
Admiral Palmer, and that he is responsible, not to the Executive, but only to
Congress. Sifted down, the issue really is whether the government's fleet
shall be controlled by one man or by the Shipping Board, and this is the
phase of the matter which will be presented to Congress. Undoubtedly,
Commissioner Haney will find ample backing in Congress for his policy
and a sharp fight will develop. This, however, will not alter the fact that
Commissioner Haney's days on the board are numbered.
Just why Commissioner Haney should have taken a dislike to Admiral
Palmer is not quite clear, despite the profferred explanations. In his letter
to the President, the commissioner says first that he considered Admiral
Palmer incompetent from temperament and lack of experience to carry
out the provisions of the Merchant Marine Act of 1920; second, Admiral
Palmer seemed determined not to confer with the board upon any of the
questions which came within its province; and, third, Admiral Palmer
seemed disposed to proceed along lines independent of the Board's action.
These are feeble reasons for Commissioner Haney's opposition to Admiral
Palmer. In the first place, it is with poor grace that Commissioner
Haney can charge Admiral Palmer with incompetence, for, by no stretch
of the imagination, can the commissioner be regarded as a shipping expert.
Moreover, Admiral Palmer has clearly demonstrated his ability to run the
government's ships, for he has reduced the operating losses to a point


  p. 2208 (#1164)                      

2208
(Nov.
C. S. Vaval Institute Proceedings
lower than they have ever been before, placed the services on a mors
business-like basis, and earned the approval of private shipowners for hs
capable management of the government's shipping interests. The second
and third complaints can be dismissed by the knowledge that, in acting
independently of the board, Admiral Palmer was carrying out the wishes
of President Coolidge and, later acting under the authority vested in bar
by the board. He has taken no important action nor made any drastic
change in policy without the consent of the board to which all his report
mendations have been sent, and the fact that the board has rejected many ci
his recommendations proves that he has not usurped any of the boards
power. It is obvious that Commissioner Haney has not had the majority
of the board behind him in his attitude, for if he had it would have becs
easy to bring about the removal of Admiral Palmer. When he was ap
pointed to the presidency of the Fleet Corporation, Admiral Palmer was
compelled to hand over to the board his resignation for acceptance at any
time. That resignation still rests with the board. Had Commissioner Haney
been supported by the other commissioners it would have been a simple
matter for them to accept President Palmer's resignation. This has not been
done; Admiral Palmer is still in office; all of which proves that con-
missioner Haney could not gain the sympathy of a majority of the com-
missioners. It is to be hoped that the impending fight will clarify the situa-
tion and put an end to the continual interference of the board with the
activities of the Fleet Corporation.
Water-borne Commerce Through United States Ports in 1924
The Nautical Gazette, 26 September, 1925.-A warehouse one mile square
and thirty-eight stories high would be filled by the water borne commerce
handled at deep water ports of the United States during the year 1924, and
a train, loaded with the contents of that warehouse, traveling at a rate of
thirty miles an hour would require more than three months to pass a
given point. These facts, developed by analysis of a survey of the water
borne traffic of the United States in 1924, prepared by the Bureau of
Research, United States Shipping Board, aid in comprehension of the mag-
nitude of our water-borne commerce.
The survey referred to contains details of the volume of cargo tonnage
handled by the principal ports of the United States, as well as our non-
contiguous possessions, in foreign, intercoastal and coastwise trades, the
total movement aggregating more than 259,500,000 tons. In this connec-
tion it is noted that the freight tonnage carried by all the railroads of the
United States during 1924 was less than five times the water borne total.
The actual volume of tonnage handled at United States ports, inbound
and outbound combined, exceeded 421,400,000 tons, more than 10 per cent
of this total passing through the port of New York. Duluth, Minnesota,
ranks second with a total cargo tonnage movement 39,850,000 tons. Los
Angeles third with 20,000,000 tons, Buffalo fourth with 17,650,000 tons,
and Philadelphia fifth with 13,800,000 tons.
The following table contains a résumé of the operations of some of the
principal ports showing the number of cargo tons of water-borne
shipments handled through each during the year 1924
Noncon-
Total Foreign Intercoastal * Coastwise tiguous
Commerce Traffic Traffic Traffic Traffic
Tons Tons Tons Tons Tons
New York, N. Y... 43,478,421 21,944,018 5,598,441 15,348,731 587,231
Duluth, Minn. ..... 39,852,321 756,857
39,095,464
Los Angeles, Calif. 20,088,980 3,732,411 6,005,851 10,147,777 202.941
Buffalo, N. Y. .... 17,651,686 3,797,541
13,854,145
Philadelphia, Pa... 13,836,779 5,404,143 1,188,403 7,154,300
89.833


  p. 2209 (#1165)                      

1925)
2209
Professional Notes
Norfolk, Va. ...... 11,539,735 2,836,222 126 202 8,484,272 93,039
Boston, Mass...... 11,296,769 2,343,451 458,972 8,426,041 68,305
New Orleans, La... 10,513,401 8,160,473 246,887 2,003,680 102,361
Toledo, Ohio ..... 10,082,783 1,166,332
8,916,451
Cleveland, Ohio ... 9,558,739 1,345,851
8,212,888
Baltimore, Md. .... 9,344,075 5,424,805 1,180,989 2,546,438 191,843
San Francisco, Calif. 9,254,715 2,727,096 1,603,647 3,726,201 1,197,771
Conneaut, Ohio .... 8,770,722 160,272
8,610,450
Ashtabula, Ohio ... 8,523,610 544,113
7,979,497
Port Arthur, Tex, . 7,594,748 2,310,263 6,229 5,256,395
21,861
Seattle, Wash. ..... 7,378,773 1,144,790 544,226 5,183,075 506,682
Milwaukee, Wis... 5,653,421 101,692
5,551,729
Ashland, Wis. .... 5,521,328 195,372
5,325,956
Lorain, Ohio ....... 5,452,238 429,662
5,022,576
Galveston, Tex. .... 5,264,135 3,222,289 52,598 1,971,728 17,520
Sandusky, Ohio ..... 4,239,217 633,145
3,606,072
Newport News, Va. 4,233,334 1,309,530 7,680 2,870,320 45,804
Houston, Tex. ...... 4,086,386 1,212,605 16,269 2,840,815
16,697
Baton Rouge, La... 3,803,849 1,290,253 54,400 2,459,196
Tacoma, Wash. ... 3,798,112 925,008 324,139 2,401,382 147,583
Portland, Ore..... 3,788,707 1,380,302 500,611 1,891,732 16,062
Providence, R. I. .. 3,658,690 556,906 66,675 3,035,109
Beaumont, Tex, ... 3,439,469 728,129
2,684,717 26,623
Texas City, Tex. .. 3,419,852 902,406 9,303 2,508,143
Jacksonville, Fla... 3,072,192 561,978 55,188 2,448,741 6,285
* Coastwise figures furnished by the Board of Engineers for Rivers and
War Department.
MISCELLANEOUS
Warships of the Future
The Engineer, 11 September, 1925.—It is not a little significant that in so
many accounts of the recent launch of the Nelson this vessel, with her
consort, the Rodney, should have been referred to as probably the last
battleships that would ever be built. On what grounds the conclusion is
based we do not know, but a belief appears to be widely held that between
the present date and 1931-in which year the treaty empowers us to lay
down two more battleships-other naval weapons may so develop in power
as to render the great ship entirely obsolete. A second, and more con-
vincing argument against the survival of the battleship has been advanced.
Even the wealthiest nation may hesitate to spend seven or eight millions
on a single ship of war, when for the same outlay four or five cruisers
could be built, especially as it seems clear that cruising ships of the power-
ful type which the Washington Treaty has promoted are destined to bear
the brunt of the fighting in a future naval campaign. From 1936 onward,
the British Empire will possess only fifteen capital ships, the United States
the same number, and Japan no more than nine. When so few are available
these ships will almost inevitably be treated as assets too precious to be
risked save in the last extremity. It is certain that they will not be
hazarded so long as there are units of less value to be mustered for the
fray. In other words, the large cruiser bids fair to replace the capital
ship, at least in the earlier phases of a war, as the dominating factor, the
type which is called upon to intervene whenever the issue between lighter
forces hangs in the balance, as a rôle which has hitherto been traditional
with the battleship.
Without presuming to offer judgment on this question, which is, after
all, too speculative to lend itself to dogmatic assertion, we would merely
point out that during the seven years which have already elapsed since the
peace there has been no such advance in the development of aerial or
submarine weapons as to warrant the inference that six years hence they


  p. 2210 (#1166)                      

2210
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
will have gained a positive ascendancy over the battleship. On the con-
trary, we venture to maintain that progress in these directions has been
largely offset by corresponding progress in counter tactics, with the result
that the battleship of today is relatively no more vulnerable to these weapons
than it was in 1918, when they failed signally to prevent the great ship
from demonstrating its supremacy. We are inclined to think that if the
battleship is doomed, its demise will be brought about by influences un-
connected with strategy or tactics. Is not the construction of so many
cruisers of large displacement and powerful armament a tacit admission
that in naval fighting the gun, in the long run, is most decisive? The menace
of torpedo and mine can be in great measure overcome by bulges and sub-
division; in fact, if high speed were not a factor of importance ships could
now be constructed in such a manner as to be virtually proof against
underwater assault. The problem of air attack is, perhaps, more formidable,
but so long as aircraft operating from shipboard are unable to carry bombs
exceeding 300 lb. in weight-as is believed to be the case at present—it is
scarcely an urgent one. Notwithstanding the improvement of rival weapons,
of which so much is heard by the public, gunfire still remains the deadliest
and least resistible form of attack. Nothing short of massive armor
avails against the shattering blows delivered by the big gun, and in vessels
below capital rank the weight of such armor is prohibitive. To minimize
the power of the gun, while magnifying that of the torpedo, the mine, or
the bomb, only serves to confuse the issue in regard to naval design and
shipbuilding policy in general. But irrespective of treaty restrictions, the
cost of a ship mounting the heaviest ordnance and carrying stout armor
is nowadays so prodigious that there is a natural tendency to seek some
cheaper substitute. Hence, the evolution of the so-called "treaty" cruiser,
which is designed to mount the heaviest guns compatible with a displace-
ment of 10,000 tons. Convincing evidence of the respect in which the gun
is universally held by naval opinion may be found in the fact that all
cruisers of this type now building or projected are to have as many 8-in.
guns as possible. They have been designed, not as torpedo ships, mine
layers, or aircraft carriers, but primarily and essentially as gun platforms.
Assuming that the admiralties of the world know their business, the inference
is unmistakable: nothing has yet been found to take the place of the gun
as the last word in naval combat. Next month, it appears, the first of our
new County cruisers is to take the water at Portsmouth. Little is known
about her, except that she will be up to the treaty limits in size and arma-
ment. For every foreign vessel of equivalent type laid down so far, a main
battery of eight 8-in. guns is provided. Apparently, therefore, this is the
largest number of such guns that can be carried without an undue sacrifice
of other qualities. Writing of cruisers in the last issue of Brassey's Annual,
Sir George Thurston submits the design of a 10,000-ton ship with nine 8-in.
guns and a speed of 34 knots. The guns, in triple turrets, are all grouped
in the forward part of the ship, the advantages of this arrangement being
set forth with the author's customary lucidity. But upon the drawbacks,
which impress us as serious, he dwells rather lightly. We question whether
naval officers would care to take into action a cruiser which had no stern
fire from its main armament. Again, the grouping of all the guns for-
ward, though tending to simplify fire control, would increase the risk of
having the entire main armament disabled by a few lucky hits. It is
obvious that a 10,000-ton cruiser, built for very high speed and powerful
armament, can be given only the scantiest armor protection, and, indeed,
Sir George proposes a thickness of only i-in. or 2-in. plating on the bar-
bettes and decks, with no side armor at all. The vitals of the ship would
thus lie open to shell of almost any caliber, while it is quite conceivable
that a single raking hit from an 8-in. projectile would put all three bar-
bettes out of action. For these reasons we would prefer an armament of
eight guns, disposed in four turrets at bow and stern. An even wider
dispersion of the armament would be desirable if weight permitted. Since


  p. 2211 (#1167)                      

1925]
2211
Professional Notes
a cruiser of the treaty type is to be virtually bare of armor, volume of fire
will be her sole means of defense, once she is engaged with an adversary
of her own class. It is therefore of the last importance that every device
should be employed to preserve her guns from premature disablement.
Strong armor being precluded, this can only be effected by spacing the gun
positions as far apart as possible. One direct hit on a turret will probably
wreck the flimsy structure and put its pair of guns out of action. This is
all but inevitable, but the real contingency to be guarded against is that a
single hit may cripple two of the turrets if they are too close together.
From this point of view something may be said in favor of the Raleigh
class, in which each of the seven 7.5-in. guns is mounted singly, albeit
behind an open shield. But by no effort of ingenuity can a cruiser of the
treaty type be endowed with a capacity for resistance equal to that of the
old armored cruiser. As Sir George Thurston puts it: "The interior of such
a cruiser is so fully occupied by boilers, machinery, and magazines that it
is not humanly possible to provide by bulkheads, watertight compartments,
or other methods of underwater protection, immunity from torpedo or mine
attack. Therefore .... it must be recognized that the explosion of a
large mine, or a torpedo with a powerful warhead, would, in the majority
of cases, utterly wreck and destroy the vessel."
The smaller class of cruisers, designated as Type B, of which the
Admiralty proposes to build seven, are apparently to be reduced copies of
the County ships. As they are to displace only 8,000 tons, a lighter arma-
ment must be accepted. Six 7.5-in. or 8-in. guns would appear to be
indicated. Japan is already completing four ships of 7100 tons and 33 knots,
which are to carry six 8-in. guns. Judged by the British standard, these
vessels are over-gunned, although, as we have pointed out before, the rule
which for many years has seemingly governed cruiser design in this country
-that no ship below 8000 tons should mount a gun heavier than 6-in.-is
without technical justification. We do not, however, concur in the view that
because all the latest foreign ships are designed for 8-in. guns, the majority
of our cruisers, being armed with 6-in. weapons, have been thereby rendered
obsolete. The fact is that out of the twenty-five cruisers which Japan will
eventually have in service, only eight are armed with heavy guns. The
remaining seventeen have a uniform armament of 5.5-in. guns, a mark
inferior in power to our 6-in. piece. All of the ten completed cruisers of the
United States Navy carry 6-in. guns, as do most of the cruising ships in
other navies, and this state of affairs will endure for some years to come.
It is in the important qualities of speed and seaworthiness that our exist-
ing cruisers are deficient. So far as armament is concerned, they compare
quite well with foreign ships.
CURRENT NAVAL AND PROFESSIONAL PAPERS
“Description of the Goodyear Pilgrim," Aviation, August 31, 1925.
“The Way of the Wind." Journal of the Franklin Institute, September,
1925.
"Maritime Law and Economic Pressure.” The Journal of the Royal
United Service Institution, August.
“Airship Work for the Navy." The Journal of the Royal United Ser-
rice Institution, August.
"Flight Tests of the New Curtis Racer.” Aviation, September 28, 1925.
"The Franklin Institute." Army Ordnance, September October.
"Anti-aircraft Ordnance.” Army Ordnance, September-October.
"Bombing.” “U. S. Air Services,” October.
“Power Plants for U. S. Navy Aircraft.” Mechanical Engineering, Octo-
ber.
"A Review of Steam Turbine Development.” Mechanical Engineering,
October.


  p. 2212 (#1168)                      

NOTES ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
FROM SEPTEMBER 3 TO OCTOBER 3
PREPARED BY
PROFESSOR ALLAX W'ESTCOTT, C. S. VAVAL ACADEMY
DEBT FUNDING NEGOTIATIONS
FRENCH DEBT Mission IN WASHINGTON.—The French debt mission to
the United States, headed by Finance Minister Caillaux, with four sena-
tors, four deputies, and two others, arrived in New York on September 3
and proceeded on the same day to Washington, where conferences were be-
gun with Secretary of the Treasury Mellon and other members of the
American Debt Commission.
On the total debt of about $4,000,000,000, the French commission made
an initial offer of payments to begin at about $25,000,000 a year and increase
to from $80,000,000 to $90,000,000 within twenty years, the payments to
extend over sixty-two years and total a sum somewhat in excess of the
principal. The American proposals called for payments totaling about
$10,000,000,000 in the sixty-two-year period. The final French proposal,
made on October 1, was for payments of $40,000,000 for five years,
$60,000,000 for seven years, and $100,000,000 for fifty-six years, a total of
$6,220,000,000. This offer was rejected by the American Commission, who
pointed out that its present value, at the rate of interest of Liberty Bonds.
a five-year delay, during which France should pay annual installments of
$40,000,000, which would be regarded as full current interest. This offer
the French Commission will present to the French Government. It must
be approved by the French Cabinet as well as by the U. S. Congress before
going into effect.
OTHER DEBT SETTLEMENTS.—In August it was announced that Count
Volpi, Italian Finance Minister, would head a new Italian debt mission to
America. Rumania and Czechoslovakia also gave notice of their decision
to send commissions.
According to information given out by the American State Department
in September, the little Baltic nation of Latvia has funded her debt of
$5,775,000 on terms satisfactory to the United States Government. In
announcing the settlement, Secretary Mellon pointed out that Latvia
was on a sound economic basis, and that her ports would prosper as entre-
pots between Russia and the outside world.


  p. 2213 (#1169)                      

1925]
2213
Notes on International Affairs
LEAGUE OF NATIONS
WORK OF LEAGUE ASSEMBLY.—The sixth annual session of the League
of Nations Assembly met at Geneva on September 7. Senator Raoul
Dandurand of Canada was elected president. In his speech as president
pro tem, Premier Painlevé of France attempted to revive the Geneva
Protocol of last year, and also recommended that the League Council call
a disarmament conference "as soon as satisfactory conditions from the
point of view of security are established.” In a subsequent speech the
British Foreign Minister, Austen Chamberlain, reiterated Great Britain's
objections to the Geneva Protocol or any similar sweeping plan of com-
pulsory arbitration, favoring instead more gradual progress and regional
agreements. In this position, opposed to France and the smaller states in
the Assembly, Great Britain was supported by Italy and Japan.
The Assembly voted to end on January 1 League supervision of Austrian
finances, while retaining control of the resources used as guarantees for
the loan to Austria raised under the auspices of the League. Resolutions
were adopted providing that the Council make a preparatory study for a
conference on disarmament, to be convoked when progress in security nego-
tiations warranted, and also that the Council consider the creation of a
special commission to prepare for a conference on the economic difficulties
in the way of international peace and progress.
Mosul DISPUTE BEFORE Council.—Meetings of the League Council
were held at Geneva concurrently with the Assembly. Prior to the meet-
ing, a special commission appointed by the council handed in its report
regarding the dispute between Turkey and Great Britain (for its mandate
35 Tabriz
TURKEY
Urmia
KURDISTAN j w L.

BAdana
Mosul
YAleppo
MEDITERRANEAN
ERSIA
SEA
SYRMA KINGDOM OF
(French Mandate)
IRAQ
T ESOPOTAMIA A
Tripoli
((British Wandgte)!
bDamascus
'ARABIA
Bagdacac.o.co
Mosul and Its Oil-FIELDS
Showing boundaries as proposed by League Commission
Beirut
of Iraq) over the territory around Mosul. The report was advisory rather
than decisive, and recommended that, although Turkey had legal claims
to the disputed territory, it should remain a part of Iraq for the next
twenty-five years, provided the British mandate were extended for that
period.


  p. 2214 (#1170)                      

2214
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Great Britain before the council offered to continue its mandate over
Iraq provided the council approved. Turkey, however, insisted upon a
plebiscite in the disputed territory and refused otherwise to accept a de-
cision of the council as final. Great Britain declared Turkey false to her
pledges, and in the middle of September protested that Turkey was deport-
ing Christians from territory on the Iraq side of the provisional frontier
established at Brussels last year. In this confusion of claims, the council
called on the Hague Court for an opinion as to the council's power to adjust
the dispute, and also decided to send a commission to investigate the de-
portation of Christians.
The British Government's offer to continue its protectorate of Iraq, at
the risk of friction or even war with Turkey, met with much opposition at
home, on the ground not only of the danger but the unprofitableness of
the undertaking.
SECURITY PACT NEGOTIATIONS
SECURITY PARLEY ON OCTOBER 5.–Following the conference of experts
in London in early September, the Allied Foreign Ministers met at Geneva
and joined in a note to Germany proposing a meeting of foreign ministers
at the little Swiss town of Locarno, on October 5. This invitation Ger-
many accepted.
Commenting on the proposed security pact, which by these developments
appeared in a fair way toward actual accomplishment, E. L. James in the
New York Times of September 29 pointed out the possible significance to
Russia of such a rapprochement between Germany and France. His state-
ment, following, refers to the visit of M. Tchitcherin, Russian Foreign
Minister, to Warsaw, which was followed by a visit to Berlin at the close
of September. Russia it was believed would make large concessions not
only to Germany but to Poland and other east European states to prevent
the creation by the Security Pact of an anti-Russian bloc headed by France
and Germany.
The treaty between the Allies and Germany amounts, in effect, to Ger-
many and France agreeing to arbitrate all differences, and England, and
perhaps Italy, guaranteeing the arrangement. That is only on the face
of it. The biggest political effect of such an agreement would be to bring
Germany back into the society of the allied nations, and this inevitably either
drags her away from Russia or at least makes any move by the Reich to
link up closely with the Soviets much less likely. It brings Germany into
the League, which is fought by Moscow even more bitterly than by Wash-
ington.
Therein lies the big effect of the arrangement on contemporaneous Euro-
pean politics.
In this connection the French are watching closely the trip to Warsaw
and Berlin of M. Tchitcherin, the Russian Foreign Minister. Today he will
be engaged in conversations with officials and political leaders of Poland,
and this seems important in view of the progress Poland and Russia have
made in improvement of their relations the past year.
What has the Soviet Minister got to say about the new conference,
which in any event tends to isolate Russia in Europe even more than
before? And what pressure may M. Tchitcherin try to bring on Germany?
What may he have to say about the promises in the Treaty of Rapallo?


  p. 2215 (#1171)                      

1925]
2215
Notes on International Affairs
All in all, there are evidences that European alignments are undergoing
important modifications, and while there seems no reason to cast any doubt
on the probability of France and Germany making the Rhine treaty, yet
taking German opposition along with other indications one can wonder
what will become of the French plan to give Poland and Warsaw guarantees
of a nature to maintain French tutelage over those countries.
FRANCE AND THE RIFF
FRANCO-SPANISH OFFENSIVE.—Early in September it was reported that
the long planned concerted offensive of French and Spanish against the
Riffians was under way. Spanish forces landed at Alhucemas Bay on Sep-
tember 9 and began an advance toward Ajdir, the Riff capital. Two weeks
later the French started a movement toward Ajdir, forty miles north. On
October 1, Spanish advance forces reported Ajdir in flames, and occupied
the town the next day.
On September 28, Marshall Lyaty, for fifteen years French representa-
tive in Morocco, retired as Resident General. It was reported that the in-
tention of the French Government was to leave Marshal Petain in full
control in Morocco until the conclusion of military operations, when a
civilian resident general would be appointed.
FAR EAST
NOTES TO CHINA ON TARIFF AND EXTRATERRITORIALITY.—On September
4 the nine powers which took part in the Washington Conference replied
in identic notes to China's request of June 24 for modification of treaty
agreements relating to tariff and extraterritoriality. The notes insisted
that China show her ability to protect foreign rights now safeguarded by
the treaties, and give concrete evidence of ability to prevent destruction of
foreign property and suppress anti-foreign agitation. The notes, however,
expressed the willingness of the powers to send delegates to a tariff con-
ference, to open October 26, and also to appoint commissions to investigate
the question of relinquishing extraterritorial rights. The latter commis-
sions will begin sessions on December 18. The decision of the powers to
give immediate attention to Chinese problems is in line with the policy
advocated by the United States Government.
Regarding tariff reduction, the New York World, quoted in the Literary
Digest of September 12, writes as follows:
"Tariff revision is urgent, for upon it depends the vigor of the central
government. Since 1842 China has been restricted to a 5 per cent tariff.
The schedule has several times been revised; the rate, never. Since these
customs receipts have been mortgaged for indemnities and loans, the adminis-
tration is in foreign hands. China, in brief, lacks even the shadow of
fiscal independence; and one reason why the Peking Government is impotent
is its financial starvation. A higher tariff will strengthen the central au-
thorities, help liquidate the debt and benefit certain industries. Hand in
hand with it should go abolition of the li-kin, or provincial imposts. These
hinder all trade and give the military governors the chief revenues with
which they defy Peking and the forces of law and order.
"If there were no other reason for cooperative Western action it would
lie in the unabated chaos of Chinese affairs. The authority of the central
government has been almost destroyed, and military governors rule the
provinces to suit themselves. The Peking treasury is notoriously bank-


  p. 2216 (#1172)                      

2216
Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
rupt. Enterprise throughout much of China is stifled, and capital has
drained to the treaty ports as the only safe place of investment. River
conservation has been neglected, with the result of dangerous floods; the
weak rail system, only some 6,000 miles, is debt-burdened and deteriorating.
Banditry has filled whole provinces with a terrorism like that of the medi-
eval condottieri. The opium evil thrives unchecked."
A CONFLICT OF CULTURES.—In an article in October Current History
Professor Charles Hodges of New York University interprets the present
unrest in China as essentially the "challenge of an Oriental civilization to
Westernization. Manifesting itself on one side in the movement among
the Chinese toward nationalism, Westernization has displayed itself more
clearly in an invasion of trade and industrial development which has revo-
lutionized Chinese life. China now has several hundred newspapers with
a yearly distribution of 75,000,000 copies, and 7,000 miles of railroad.
Western machinery has invaded the most conservative of a people's
habits; it has established the beginnings of capitalistic enterprise in the
daily bread of 400,000,000 Asiatics.
Hence, the ordinary wear and tear of the industrial revolution in China
has been bitterly accentuated by the conflict of civilizations behind the
rise of factories and machine power. It is natural that Chinese nationalism
should assail the growth of alien economic domination when it is sur-
rounded with a hedge of treaty provisions tying the hands of China's
sovereignty; when this foreign business arrogates to itself privileges it
enjoys on no such scale elsewhere in the world; when for every gain to
China it raises two problems that it neither aids China's hapless govern-
ment in solving nor itself meets in its operations on Chinese soil. Naturally
trouble centers about Shanghai. Here the most complete breakdown of
Chinese society has been accomplished by Westernization in the business
world. Clustered around this New York of China, like satellites around a
planet, are half a dozen smaller cities such as Wusih and Soochow, like-
wise transforming themselves and their humanity. A similar development
centers about Tien-tsin, the metropolis of North China, whose murky horizon
is beginning to blot out the significance of a political shell like Peking in
the rise of Chinese "money joss" or millionaires of business. Then 700
miles up the Yangtze, Hankow stands out as another economic storm center,
the Chicago and Pittsburgh of tomorrow's China. These contain the main
forces of this material Westernization; but wherever rail or water com-
munication offers the means an industry here and another there mark
the extension of industrial outposts into the heart of Chinese life.
All this, of course, is inevitable. The capitalistic pattern of human
organization, with its material benefits and liabilities, is a predominant
factor in world life that no people can escape.
Let us put it this way: Thirty years ago a family of five could live in
the coast city of Foochow for $10 silver a month; today it costs them
$30 to exist. Half that number of years ago in Changsha, a central
Chinese city, eggs were sold at two for a copper; now they are two for
nine cents. Wages, in their usual laggardly way, have followed the trend
of prices. In the meantime, the circle of wants about a Chinese family
has widened. Wherein, ask the Chinese pessimists, is the gain to China
in all this upsetting of the old order, speeding up of life, the breaking
down of the family system, the very keystone of Chinese social stability?
Herein lies the real force of the present situation. Indeed, its reality
is testified to by the virtual evacuation of the interior of East Asia by the
foreigner-industrial manager, business man and missionary. Now from
within, the situation in this year of 1925 is not different from that of 1900.
In a fundamental sense, the causes of the anti-foreign Boxer troubles and


  p. 2217 (#1173)                      

1925]
2217
Notes on International Affairs
the present unrest of China's new nationalism are the same—the failure
of the West to meet the situation its presence has evoked.
Twenty-five years ago this precipitated the assault on the works of
Christianity. The cycle was clearly defined: first it was directed against
the Catholics, whose insistence on what came close to an assertion of
political interests in China's domestic affairs provoked the popular native
hatred; then it was turned against all Christian activity; and finally the
explosion hit all foreigners. Today the cycle is reversed. Young China
is challenging the material interests of the West as the root of the
present evil. It began with the Japanese cotton mills, spread to the British,
involved other nationalities, and eventually tied up all economic activity.
Finally, the outcome of a bitter local labor struggle has been the turning
of the Chinese against the spiritual side of Westernization.
Therefore Western interests in the Far East will rise and fall about
Westernization—both in its spiritual and material aspects. To the Chinese
mind the two are intertwined hopelessly in the invasions of the white man's
world life into what was yesterday the Middle Kingdom. Sitting in our easy
chairs here in the West 100 years after the industrial revolution, we can
be philosophical over the costs of progress and the pains of industrializa-
tion. The Chinese millions, however, have no such perspective of comfort
achieved. They are asking the West to bestir itself about the fruit of its
own handiwork.


  p. 2218 (#1174)                      

BOOK REVIEWS
QUR NAVAL HERITAGE. By Fitzhugh Green, U.S.N.
F.A.G.S. M.Sc. Royal 8vo, 400 pages illustrated, $4.00. Pub-
lished by the Century Company: New York and London.
REVIEWED BY CAPtain Yates STIRLING, JR., U. S. Navy
The reading of this book, Our Naval Heritage, will be both a pleasure
and an education. It stamps the author as a careful student of history, a
writer of talent, and an expert portrayer of human nature. The book was
written so delightfully as to win sympathetic attention from its readers. Its
style is unrestrained and direct, and what the author has to say flows
logically and lucidly from his pen.
In this volume of four hundred pages of excellent print, Lieutenant Com-
mander Green gives us an inspiring word picture of the American Navy,
truly a "succinct and vivid recital of our country's past afloat, and of her
newly won world leadership at sea." It is not a mere record of achieve-
ments, but a vivid, live, human portrayal of the spirit of the sea and of our
Navy which has from small beginnings grown to considerable size, despite
the handicap that the American people as a whole, in the past more par-
ticularly, have little understood what it is all about and have given it but
small encouragement. The book gives us historical proof that the Navy
has maintained its high morale during times when if it had had less faith
in itself it would have withered and died.
The author shows that the American Navy is, as it were, an off-shoot
from the parent, the British Navy. The laws and customs of that more
ancient service were the foundation adopted by the infant sea power after
the American nation had freed itself from the yoke of the British monarchy.
Lieutenant Commander Green in his introduction speaks confidentially
to the pacifists: "It is well not to let ourselves be stampeded by our loath-
ing for the frightfulness of war. Doubtless, the most fervent pacifists in
the world today, despite their silence in the market place, are those who
came closest to the horrors of the World War. The difference between
those openly opposed to war and those who invent war's dreadful engines
is usually but in point of view. One party is idealistic; the other ana-
lytical. To condition peace on the silencing of drums is in many ways no
more logical than to promise peace on a structure of power.” This appeal
is well timed, and it is hoped will be heeded by those for whom it is in-
tended. May they read it (the book] to their benefit and to ours.
The United States, situated as it is, in the very center of two great oceans,
the Atlantic and Pacific, with the rich markets of Europe, Africa, Asia,
Australasia, and South America reached only by sea, must uphold the prin-
ciple of the freedom of the seas, for our ever-growing production needs


  p. 2219 (#1175)                      

1925)
2219
Book Reviews
these outlets. But, this freedom of the seas can be obtained by us, if his-
tory is a guide, only through the existence of a navy strong enough to give
us our sea rights against those who would for gain refuse them to us.
Lieutenant Commander Green has named his creation most appropriately,
Our Naval Heritage. When we become engrossed in this tale of the sea
unfolded before us, we begin to realize how far back in antiquity the roots
of the naval calling extend. The sailorman of today can almost hear the
voices of spirit forebears, now forever still across the centuries, speaking
to him in the universal language of the sea and warning him to keep alive
those sacred heritages for which so many have laid down their lives. The
book gives us only a fleeting picture of the early discoverers-of Columbus
and other intrepid navigators—mostly from Spain and Portugal. Those
nations, in the Fifteenth and Sixteenth Centuries were the leaders of the
maritime world. Their story is not a drab narrative of achievement, but,
as if by a bold stroke of an artist's brush, we see the true character of this
handful of men who dared to set out upon a voyage into the unknown,
where dwelt, so ran tradition at that time, antediluvial monsters and revolt-
ing perils from which no man could expect to return. The powerful urge
that caused these intrepid spirits to win a continent, we know was the same
as is dominant in the human race today; the lust for gold; the lure of the
treasures of the Orient, which land they hoped to reach by a shorter, more
direct route and ahead of their fellow men.
There has always existed a wide gulf in the lives led by the landlubber
and the sailor. This has come from the fact of a language of the sea which
no one who has not sailed upon its bosom can understand. On the seas,
tradition ever has been a moving force, welding the seafaring fraternity
into a people apart from all the rest of mankind.
Discipline on one of our great dreadnaughts of today is maintained just
as rigidly as of old, yet with vaster kindliness, and the ancient traditions
of rank, ceremony, and prestige, frequently and perhaps jealously derided
by our civilian acquaintances, are yet enforced. How vaguely the land-
lubber knows of the perils of the sea and the need of iron discipline to
win a victory on its bosom, in peace against its perils and in war against
the nation's enemies !
Lieutenant Commander Green tells us of this vital requirement of dis-
cipline at sea by quoting a letter from the pen of the immortal John Paul
Jones, who thus describes the power of a ship captain : "His authority
when off shore being necessary, absolute . . . . force must be used sometimes
for the ends of discipline. . ... Whilst the ships sent forth by Congress
may and must fight for the principles of human rights and republican free-
dom, the ships themselves must be ruled and commanded at sea under a
system of absolute despotism.” There have been many attempts by the
landlubber to break down this "absolute despotism” and seeds of discord
among the crews of warships often have been sown. In some foreign navies,
this breaking down of traditional discipline has led to mutiny and turned a
fighting force into a worthless junk pile of valuable material, incapable of
battles on the sea.


  p. 2220 (#1176)                      

2220
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The book tersely describes the exploits of the rugged mariners of the
Elizabethan period and after, when navies were merely swashbuckling
marauders, near pirates, yet from whom have come all those customs, usages,
and chivalries which the sea has jealously guarded and held as a standard
of conduct for those who live upon it. Of the chivalric traditions of the
sea, the one "women and children first" has ever been followed and seldom
broken. It is a tradition that the landlubber without military training in
great catastrophies is unable to follow. Without discipline and a recog-
nized leader, it is inevitable that we frequently read of the mad panic of
men on shore trampling over their women and children in an effort to
escape injury and death.
The book outlines the evolution of the warship as it emerged from out
the groups of merchant ships which clustered together for protection against
freebooters and pirates, gradually acquiring weapons more deadly and pro-
tecting itself from the effect of such weapons. In portraying the hardiness
of the seafaring race, the author says: “No chronicle of American marine
can stand forth in its true colors without at least a sketch in background of
the marvelous feats on which our seafaring ideals are founded. The tang
of danger, the spirit of adventure and of hardships of some weird voyage
still cling about them.” Some of these feats are from our own history, but
on the theory that the sea has no nationality he gives feats performed by
sailors of all climes.
Woven delightfully through his chapters "How Ships Were Built and
Sailed,” and “Where They Went and Why,” are told the beginnings of
man's victories over the sea, how he won first a grudging and dangerous
transport upon it, and finally a complete and everlasting victory over it.
Admiral Mahan has told us that a merchant marine is the cause and
justification of a navy, and the author proves it to us most conclusively
from our own history, for not until we were driven to protect our rapidly
growing merchant marine did we give thought to having a warship. The
creation of a navy is thus seen to be based upon the desire of protecting
our external trade. It might be said also that the existence of a merchant
marine to protect focuses the eyes of a nation upon the advantage of war.
ships. It would be more idealistic to believe that the cause and justification
of a navy is to secure respect to our flag on the seas. Putting it thus,
we purify the intent, taking it out of the realm of profit and loss and making
of it a point of honor.
Washington wrote: "To be prepared for war is one of the most effective
means of preserving peace. . ... To secure respect for a neutral flag re-
quires a naval force ready to vindicate it from insult and aggression. This
may even prevent the necessity of going to war by discouraging belligerent
powers from committing such violations of rights of the neutral party as
may first or last leave no option.”
The story tells us of the hardships encountered by men of iron sailing the
treacherous seas in flimsy ships of wood and the struggle of the infant
American Navy to keep itself afloat or even alive.
The author expresses the first fifty years of our country's sea-faring
life in tabular form thus :


  p. 2221 (#1177)                      

1925)
2221
Book Reviews
1775 to 1794—Mostly chaos and privateering.
1794 to 1812—Wars with France and Tripoli, bringing about the estab-
lishment of the real American Navy.
1812 to 1832—Final escape from Britain's clutches and emergence from
threats of piracy.
Speaking of conditions during our revolution, he says: “The total num-
ber of combatant vessels operating under the Continental Congress is put
at forty-two. Operating singly and in groups, this scant force had an
astonishing number of skirmishes with the world-famed British Navy.
Practically all were annihilated by 1783 when total disarmament at sea was
put into effect and our newest naval vessel presented to the King of France
who had befriended us. By 1785, we did not have a single man of war.
This state of affairs continued until 1794, when Congress began our Navy
with a special appropriation for six large frigates.” One of these frigates,
the Constitution, or “Old Ironsides,” is still in existence as an historical
relic at the Navy Yard at Boston, Massachusetts.
When we gaze upon our proud fleet of today, little do we reckon of those
dark years when the flickering candle flame, the spirit of the American
Navy, came near being snuffed out by politicians who could see no value in
such a force.
Our war with England in 1812 on the seas was not always as successful
as our histories tell us, but the frigate Constitution's achievements were
something for which the nation can always be proud.
The Navy solved the questions of piracy and slave trade, and greatly
helped to build the nation. The story reads like a romance, and the reader
is carried along the crest of a smooth-flowing tide through the development
from wood to iron and iron to steel warship construction and the develop-
ment of and the growing formidableness of naval weapons.
Apparently, but little if anything has been omitted to give us insight into
the soul of the Navy. His inspiring accounts of the deeds of our naval
heroes of years gone, whose manly attributes of self-sacrifice and devotion
to country won them the plaudits of their nation, even those who never rose
to hero fame, show that they could always be depended upon to do their
level best with whatever material an economic government would give them.
In times of piping peace and lean naval appropriations, the navy turned its
versatile hand to science, exploration, and acts of humanity, and many of
the nation's achievements in the mechanical arts are due to the Navy's help.
The Spanish War re-awakened the people to look to their Navy. The
naval race between England and Germany was on from this time while
our Navy held a position in third place. Then came the great war and
then Jutland.
The chapter on “What Happened at Jutland" is instructive. The author
blames British naval policy dictated by those ashore and not Admiral
Jellicoe for the escape of the German high sea fleet. He says: "England
failed at Jutland, not Jellicoe. Will some day America likewise fail,” and
further on he adds: "His (Jellicoe) immediate reason for not doing so
(pursue the German fleet) was the torpedo threat of the charging German
cruisers and destroyers. Putting it in another way, eleven destroyers drove


  p. 2222 (#1178)                      

2222
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
twenty-seven English first-class men-of-war temporarily out of action.
This is of peculiar interest when one examines the frequent campaigns that
have been waged against the building of these frail craft."
He draws from Jutland a lesson for us in these words: “Jutland was
indecisive in the sense that neither force conquered. With the immense
size of modern fleets this outcome is the more probable one in any engage-
ment of the future. Therefore, we may conclude from Jutland that what
we are to expect from our Navy is more than mere combat. The navy
must stand for an indefinable, impalpable something besides merely throw-
ing projectiles at an enemy. It must keep the country strategically secure,
and strategical security is a priceless asset in peace as well as in war."
• The Navy should have a guiding hand if not a vote in the development
of our peace strategy, preventing statesmen from bartering away the na-
tion's strategic security. Successful war on the sea is primarily dependent
upon secure strategical positions from which our naval forces may operate.
Peace strategy should provide these positions.
Had Jellicoe "damned the torpedoes” as did Farragut, what would have
been the outcome of Jutland and the World War?
The American Navy, when the United States declared war on Germany
in 1917, lacked the types of vessels needed to combat the most pressing
menace, that of the submarine. However, in the end its achievements were
in magnitude great enough to materially aid in deciding the victory. The
book tells the story of the North Sea mine barrage, the railroad battery,
and the oversea transportation services for both men and material, conceived
and accomplished' prior to the Armistice which were notable naval achieve-
ments. Our battle feet in its entirety was not needed but the navy was
represented in the grand fleet by a division of battleships and every de-
stroyer that could be made available was sent to the war zone about Great
Britain and France.
The book discusses the effects of the Limitation of Naval Armaments
Treaty upon the United States. It was, as the writer aptly puts it, an im-
mense naval and economic sacrifice which the United States was willing to
make for the sake of furthering universal peace.
After the World War the fleet goes to the Pacific Coast in order to
develop the strategy of the coming ocean. The book tells us of the good
effects this change has produced.
In the chapter on “The Place of a Naval Air Force," the writer gives
us a concise account of naval airplane development. He believes that war
at sea will still be decided by the gun for he says in part: "The battleship
is no doubt doomed; that is, the battleship in its present form. She has
been doomed for about one hundred twenty-five years, or ever since the
submarine was invented. The ram and torpedo further assured her doom.
The airplane simply drives another nail in her coffin. It looks, however,
as if the battleship type would survive a few years more at least, for had
any of the target vessels tried out by England or the United States in
recent years been able to maneuver against the attacking aircraft, to use
guns against them, to send combat planes up as a protection, to effect
emergency repairs, to resort to blisters and special bottoms and protective


  p. 2223 (#1179)                      

1925)
2223
Book Reviews
gratings, and to spread smoke screens, it is likely that a gun duel between
major ships would have settled the day just as it always has in the past.”
The book carries the reader down to the present moment and after we
have turned the last page, we cannot but feel a deeper inspiration and an
unwavering faith that the men of our nation who have served us on the
seas have left behind them a sacred heritage-a hostage in the keeping of
those of today, and when the present smoke of battle clears on Capitol Hill
and in the press, we shall see that those who have been administering our
Navy still ring true to these immortal traditions of devotion to country and
to their beloved Navy.
ANNAPOLIS—Its Colonial and Naval Story. Walter B. Nor-
ris, U. S. Naval Academy. 16 full page illustrations, 336 pages,
8vo. Thomas Y. Crowell Company: New York. $3.00.
REVIEWED BY CAPTAIN Ralph Earle, U.S.N., Ret.
During my youth, as well as during that of thousands of the boys of
today, Annapolis was a magical word. It meant the threshold to the dis-
closing of the great mystery of the sea, of the life thereon, and symbolized
the gateway through which young Americans must pass in order to embark
upon the romantic and honorable life and the profession of a naval officer.
Soon after entering the greatest engineering college in the world, the U. S.
Naval Academy, the young Americans as midshipmen appreciate in a small
measure what an appropriate spot Annapolis is in which to absorb the spirit
and traditions of the sea and the Navy, for that town itself speaks through
its buildings, streets, alleys, and waters, of the spirit of the Navy as well
as that of colonial and revolutionary times.
This book, Annapolis, by Walter B. Norris, one of the able civilian pro-
fessors of English at America's famous Naval Academy, will be read with
the greatest joy and satisfaction by everyone in our country who has the
least pride in his nation, its settlers, its patriots, or its Navy, the record of
which has ever been one of uninterrupted success and of accomplishment
to the honor and prosperity of our nation.
The book relates in easy narrative style the stories of the men who built
the great brick residences of Annapolis, and who fought for their ideals
from the Battle of the Severn in 1655, on down through the days of the
Royal, the Proprietary, the elected governors, and of the Revolution, to the
present day, such men as the Ogles, Ridouts, Chases, Pacas, Hammonds,
Harwoods, Carrolls, Lloyds, Dorseys, Dulaneys, Jennings, Brices, Scotts,
Stewarts, and Bordleys appearing in its pages. The fine tulip poplar on the
campus at St. John's College acquires new interest as one sees how under
its branches the Susquehannocks in 1652 signed the treaty that kept colonial
Maryland almost wholly free from Indian troubles. McDowell Hall, it
appears, was intended by Governor Bladen for a governor's mansion in
1744, but the legislature thinking him extravagant failed to supply sufficient
funds with which to complete the work, and so for years, until it was turned
over to the college, the structure was known as Bladen's folly. One gets


  p. 2224 (#1180)                      

2224
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
intimate glimpses and side lights upon the lives of revered patriots, such
as Washington, Hamilton, and the three Maryland signers of the Declara-
tion of Independence; these and many others all are here in very human
and every-day phases. The facts presented are what every visitor to Annap-
olis, not to mention all who are interested in colonial history or in the Navy
of today and yesterday, wants to know, and which cannot be found in any
other one book. The names of the streets, houses, and creeks take on a
new and charming meaning after a perusal of this volume.
In a very attractive manner Professor Norris traces the history of
Annapolis, showing its political, commercial, and social life, the relations of
the governors to the crown and people, the wealth yielded by tobacco grow.
ing, the races, the dinners, the dances, and the dress and fashions of the
times. One sees Puritans asserting themselves in a Catholic colony, next
the Annapolitans, struggling for freedom, burning the Peggy Stewart with
its hated cargo of tea, supporting the Revolution, and later entertaining
our French compatriots; and then how the spirit of the air and surroundings
was saved from oblivion by the establishment there of the Naval Academy
which brought a naval atmosphere to the old city, an atmosphere that really
restored old social forms because the Navy brought emphasis on formality
with a generally aristocratic tone.
As the author well says, the book presents a true picture of "American
achievement in war and peace, in commerce, education, politics, and the more
charming phases of social life."
The illustrations are of exceptionally high merit, being largely from
etchings by Eugene P. Metour, drawings by Vernon Howe Bailey, and
photographs of the Naval Academy.
During the World War many reserve officers received a three months'
training at Annapolis where the atmosphere of the old but grand city helped
instill in them the spirit of the traditions of the makers of our nation as
well as of the naval service itself. To these officers, also, this book will
prove especially interesting and valuable as in it they will find much that
they wished to know but which their short course at the Naval Academy
prevented.
Altogether, the book is well worth while, both for reading and for ref-
erence, and deserves to be widely read.
MAKERS OF NAVAL TRADITION. By Carroll Storrs Alden
and Ralph Earle. Ginn and Company: Boston. $1.25 net.
REVIEWED BY CAPTAIN J. J. Raby, U.S.N.
Some wiseacre has aptly said that "of the making of books there is no
end." That this well-worn adage is literally true must be quite obvious to
us all, for thousands of volumes seem to roll in rapid succession from the
press almost daily. But how many of these books are scarcely worth the
paper on which they are printed, much less the effort required to read
them? And how few stand the test of time and prove their worth?
The foregoing remarks, however, are not applicable to the little volume
under review. Indeed, Makers of Naval Tradition, written by Professor
Alden, head of the Department of English at the U. S. Naval Academy,


  p. 2225 (#1181)                      

1925)
2225
Book Reviews
and Captain Earle, U. S. Navy, is destined to occupy an important place
among the historical works of our country. We believe this because it has
to do with men who have left their names indelibly written on the pages of
history, and because it stresses that element in human life which has been
one of the most important factors in shaping the course of our beloved land.
The purposes of the authors in writing this interesting and helpful vol-
ume are clearly stated in the preface: namely, thoroughly to acquaint all
midshipmen with the makers of our naval traditions, and to point out the
debt that they really owe the heroic characters who have preceded them in
the Navy. Professor Alden and Captain Earle have, in various capacities,
been for many years vitally interested in the education of midshipmen, and
are well qualified to present the subjects treated in an authoritative and
pleasing manner.
Now in reading this book the laudable purposes of the authors may be at
once recognized, and there is not the slightest doubt that our potential
young officers should be perfectly familiar with these naval tradition makers.
Indeed, they can gather much that will be of supreme worth to them in
after years from a sympathetic study of the lives of these great naval heroes.
But why limit this valuable study to so few students? If the historical
material recorded in this volume is of vital importance in the training of
our midshipmen, would it not be equally beneficial for the entire youth of
our country? In fact, we have been so favorably impressed with the sub-
ject matter of this interesting volume, the racy style in which it is written,
the historical accuracy with which the facts are recorded, and the tremen-
dous appeal to the heroic side of life that we are persuaded to believe that
it should be used in our private and public schools. Certainly, no course of
study in history could be more interesting, none more conducive to the de-
velopment of heroic efforts on the part of our youth, and none more potent
in molding character in the right direction. We are justly proud of our
naval heroes; the youth of our land should be made perfectly familiar with
them, and no other book is so admirably fitted for this purpose as Makers
of Naval Tradition.
Then, again, the book is written not only in good, clear, vivid, poignant
English, but running through it all is that indescribable spirit that has been
a mighty power in shaping the onward course of our great nation. Indeed,
what could be more inspiring than the thrilling biographies of Jones, Deca-
tur, MacDonough, Perry, Farragut, Porter, Dewey, and Sampson? In
this little volume one may find not only the biographies of these naval
heroes, but an interesting and illuminating chapter on the part our Navy
played in the World War.
Makers of Naval Tradition should be available to every American boy.


  p. 2226 (#1182)                      

2226
[Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
LAST DAYS OF MAST AND SAIL. By Sir Alan Moore, Bt.
Illustrated by R. Morton Nance. Oxford University Press,
American Branch.
REVIEWED BY REAR ADMIRAL A. M. KNIGHT, U. S. Navy, RET.
This is one of a fairly long series of volumes published within the last
quarter century whose aim it is to preserve the features and the atmosphere
of an era, that of the sailing ship, which must regrettably be recognized as
a thing of the past: regrettably because with the disappearance of sails
has disappeared a whole world of romance and adventure and a whole race
of men, not bolder, perhaps, than the seafaring man of today, nor hardier,
but different in numberless ways—more strongly marked as a type, more
picturesque and more essentially, in every characteristic, a product of the sea.
The author, although not a seafaring man by profession-he is in fact a
well-known surgeon-has served in the British Navy and has evidently
been a lover of ships and boats throughout his life. He claims for the
present work that “it is an account of nearly every kind of craft seen be-
tween the Orkneys and Aden, during the late war, and of a few types seen
before 1914."
A much broader claim than this would have been justified by the work
itself, for, although it is essentially a record of observation rather than of
research, the author has not hesitated to go into the history of the craft
he is describing whenever the story of their evolution from earlier types
appears to him significant. The result is an interesting description of prac-
tically every type of sailing craft that could have been seen in European
waters not alone during the World War, but at any time within the last
half century.
The description is not exhaustive and is not intended to be so, for the
author bases his classification of types upon sail-plan alone, touching lightly,
where he touches at all, upon features connected with the hull or with the
purposes for which the various types were designed. It is not the vessel as
a whole with which he deals, complete from keel to truck, but the rig as
fixed by masts and sails. This limitation is brought out clearly by the chap-
ter headings, which are as follows:
Sails and Rig
Square Sails
Lateen Sails
Spritsails
Gaffsails
Lugsails
Within the limits fixed by this somewhat narrow point of view the treat-
ment could hardly be more satisfactory. The style is simple and direct
and the enthusiasm with which the author enters into description of the
minutest details of his subject is so infectious that, as a rule, it compels the
interest, if not the enthusiasm, of the reader. This is not always true. At
times the description is a little more minute than the importance of the sub-
ject justifies, and even the professional reader, with every desire to be


  p. 2227 (#1183)                      

1925)
2227
Book Reviews
informed, is likely to find his attention flagging. The author's interest in
what he calls "comparative nautical anatomy" has evidently led him to jot
down for his own enjoyment every slightest deviation from standard prac-
tice that he has observed, and it is easy to understand how difficult he finds
it to believe that not every one of these treasured notes is worthy of a
place in this record of the last days of a rapidly vanishing art.
Thus it comes about that we have here details as trilling as the lead of
vangs on a small Turkish craft encountered in the harbor of Salonika and
nearly five pages given to the rigging of this little forty-five-foot vessel, in
spite of the fact-or because of it—that no reader of this volume will ever
be likely to meet such a craft and, what is more important, that the features
so elaborately described have no apparent relation to any line of develop-
ment leading up to or growing out of them.
There would be no ground for complaining of this over-elaboration in
the treatment of details, however unimportant, if the space so utilized had
not apparently crowded out certain features of greater interest. No de-
scription is given of studding-sails, for example. Yet they persisted at
least a century after the disappearance of the spritsail as carried under the
bowsprit, a feature which is covered by full description and illustrated
with a page of cuts. They played, too, a more important part in seaman-
ship and in history, and are among the most striking features of many
historical engravings. This is an omission which may well be corrected in
the next edition.
The schooner is treated at some length in the chapter on gaffsails, where
the statement is made that the rig originated in Holland and was in use in
England in the Seventeenth Century. It is difficult to disprove a statement
of the kind but there is a mass of testimony, English as well as American,
to support the tradition that the first genuine schooner was built at Glouces-
ter, Massachusetts, in 1713, by Captain Andrew Robinson.
The defects-if such they are which have been pointed out are of
trifling significance upon the whole and detract but little from the value
and the charm of the work under review. Both value and charm are enor-
mously enhanced by the cuts, two hundred twenty-two in number, by which
the text is illustrated. To say that these are by R. Morton Nance is to
say all that need be said, or could be said, of their excellence.
To any library, public or private, in which the literature of the sea has
a place, this work is indispensable, and to all readers of such literature it
is cordially recommended.
It would be too much, perhaps, to say that the era of the sailing ship has
now been adequately covered from the descriptive side. But the descrip-
tions that we have, supplemented by the many splendid views that con-
temporary art has made available, suffice to fill the eye with a fairly
satisfactory conception of the sailing ship as it was known to past genera-
tions of seafaring men. A few of these are still left, with memories not
only of the ships, but of the men who manned them and of the spirit which
gave to the lives of these men an epic quality more characteristic of the age
than were the ships themselves.


  p. 2228 (#1184)                      

2228
(Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
It remains for some one of that fast-vanishing group to fix upon the
printed page a revelation of this spirit as a companion picture to the one
here given of the material side of The Days of Mast and Sail. Flashes
of this spirit we find here and there in poetry and story. But, in no single
volume is any effort made to fill in the outline which Thomas Fleming Day
has sketched, of “The Sailor of the Sail."
“Lord of the Bunt and Gasket
And Master of the Yard
For whom no land was distant
To whom no sea was barred."


  p. 2229 (#1185)                      

SECRETARY'S NOTES
Membership New members joining since last report:
Timmons, C. C., Lieut. (SC), U.S.N. Murphy, J. N., Midn., U.S.N.
Jordan, J. N., Comdr. (SC), U.S.N. Schwarz, A. D., Midn., U.S.N.
Cochran, w. P., Ens., U.S.N.
Russell, Herbert, Sir.
Hansen, H. J., Lieut., U.S.N.
Martin, C. O., Ensign, U.S.N.R.F.
Trimble, C. E., Ensign, U.S.N.R.F. Buehler, A. R., Lieut., U.S.N.
Lane, R. H., Brig. Gen., U.S.M.C.
The Institute desires articles of interest to all branches
Articles of the service, including the reserve force. Non-
members as well as members may submit articles, and
authors receive due compensation for articles published. Com-
pact, well digested articles are more likely to be accepted for
early publication. In accepting articles for publication, the In-
stitute reserves the right to have such articles revised or rearranged,
where necessary, in order to bring them up to the required stand-
ard of articles published in the PROCEEDINGS—the cost, if any, to
be deducted from the compensation due the author.
Contributors are requested to observe the following special in-
structions in preparing articles for the PROCEEDINGS:
(a) In writing names of ships put only the initial letters in
capitals and underscore the names. The underscoring sig-
nifies to the printer that the word is to be in italics. The
same applies to names of publications. Foreign words not
anglicized should also be italicized.
(b) In preparing tables and computations employing fractions,
sub-numbers, etc., do by hand that part which cannot be
made perfectly clear by the typewriter.
(c) In typing the script use double space between lines.
(d) When a quotation is included in an article the editor should
be assured by appropriate notation that the writer has care-
fully verified the quotation as presented.
Discussion of articles published in the PROCEED-
Discussions INGS is cordially invited. Discussions accepted
for publication are paid for at approximately
one-half the rate for original articles.


  p. 2230 (#1186)                      

2230
Nov.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Book
Reviews
As soon as practicable after the publication of books
on subjects of professional interest, the Institute
aims to publish authoritative reviews of them.
In the past, many errors have resulted from the
Address of habit of changing an officer's address as soon
Members as his transfer orders are published in the papers.
No change will be made in the future except upon
receipt of notification by the member concerned. Reliance upon
the former method may, in extreme cases, mean a delay of almost
four months. To insure the prompt delivery of the PROCEEDINGS
and other communications from the U. S. Naval Institute, it is
essential that members and subscribers notify the Secretary-
Treasurer without delay of every change of address. No responsi-
bility can be accepted for failure to receive the PROCEEDINGS,
where members fail to comply with this rule. Changes of address
should reach the Institute by the 20th of the month, to be effective
for the issue of the PROCEEDINGS of the following month.
The Institute desires to obtain a copy of
Jane's
Jane's "Fighting Ships, 1924," the edition
“Fighting Ships" of which is exhausted; and requests that
(1924)
anyone wishing to dispose of a copy com-
municate with the Naval Institute, stating
price desired and condition of book.
H. A. BALDRIDGE,
Captain, U. S. Navy, Secretary-Treasurer.


  p. 2230 (#1187)                      

ity
DEC 2_1926
7
United States
Naval Institute
Proceedings

VOL. 51
DECEMBER, 1925
NO. 274


NST
NAV
NAVAL
ACADEMY
U.S. N
TUTE
EX
IDENS
*
1873
>
SCIENTIA
2231
2242
2244
2259
2265
2276
2286
2289
CONTENTS
Sea Power and Pocketbooks.-Knox . .
Bombing Radius as Affected by Wind.-Schuyler.
Naval Mining and Naval Mines.—Bagby. . . . .
Naval Aircraft in International Law.-Sherman
Control of the Seas by an Air Department.-Kieffer . .
Direct Reading Maneuvering Diagrams.-Willson . .
A Device for Solving for True Wind.-Gilmer . .
The Destroyer Engineer in Battle.-Fairlamb.
A Destroyer Division Commander's Inspection.—Godfrey
The War Staff Idea Afloat.-Wright. .
United States Occupation of the Dominican Republic.—Baughman
Are You Worth It?-Brown.
Discussion
Professional Notes
Notes on International Affairs
Book Reviews .
Secretary's Notes
Index to Volume 51.
2293
2298
2306
2328
2334
2341
2407
2414
2423
2431


  p. 2230 (#1188)                      


FUEL OIL
GAS OIL
DIESEL OIL
There is more power in
THAT GOOD GULF GASOLINE
and
SUPREME AUTO OIL
GULF REFINING COMPANY
New York
Boston
New Orleans
Philadelphia
Atlanta
Houston
General Sales Office
PITTSBURGH, PA.


  p. 2230 (#1189)                      

United States
Naval Institute
Proceedings
December, 1925
Edited by H. A. Baldridge

SESONG
INS
VAL
TIT
U.S.N
TU T
verse
1873
U. S. Naval Institute
Publication Office: Menasha, Wisconsin
Editorial and Business Ofice: Annapolis, Maryland


  p. 2230 (#1190)                      

1855 ,
1925
CRANE V ALVES .

HIGH PRESSURE CAST STEEL BALANCED STOP VALVE
We can supply any valve
or fitting for any ship
CRANE
Address all inquiries to Crane Co., Chicago
GENERAL OFFICES: CRANE BUILDING, 836 S. MICHIGAN AVENUE, CHICAGO
Branches and Sales Ofices in One Hundred and Fifty Cities
National Exhibit Rooms: Chicago, New York, Atlantic City, San Francisco and Montreal
Works: Chicago, Bridgeport, Birmingham, Chattanooga, Trenton and Montreal
CRANE EXPORT CORPORATION: NEW YORK, SAN FRANCISCO, SHANGHAI
CRANE LIMITED: CRANE BUILDING, 386 BEAVER HALL SQUARE, MONTREAL
CRANE-BENNETT, LTD., LONDON
CW CRANE: PARIS, NANTES, BRUSSELS


  p. 2230 (#1191)                      

UNITED STATES
NAVAL INSTITUTE
P R O C E E DINGS
Vol. No. 51, No. 12
DECEMBER, 1925
WHOLE No. 274
Y..........................
2286
Contents
SEA POWER AND POCKETBOOKS. By Captain Dudley W.
Knox, U. S. Navy, RETIRED.......
2231
BOMBING RADIUS AS AFFECTED BY WIND. BY COMMANDER
GARRET L. SCHUYLER, U. S. Navy.......
2242
NAVAL MINING AND NAVAL MINES. BY THE LATE LIEU-
TENANT COMMANDER OLIVER W. Bagby, U. S. NAVY... 2244
NAVAL AIRCRAFT IN INTERNATIONAL LAW. By LIEUTENANT
FORREST SHERMAN, U. S. Navy................. 2259
CONTROL OF THE SEAS BY AN AIR DEPARTMENT. By LIEU-
TENANT COMMANDER H. M. KIEFFER, U. S. Navy...... 2265
DIRECT READING MANEUVERING DIAGRAMS. BY COMMANDER
RUSSELL WILLSON, U. S. Navy....
2276
A DEVICE FOR SOLVING FOR TRUE WIND. By LIEUTENANT
F. H. GILMER, U. S. Navy.......
THE DESTROYER ENGINEER IN BATTLE. BY LIEUTENANT
GEORGE R. FAIRLAMB, JR., U. S. Navy........
2289
A DESTROYER DIVISION COMMANDER'S INSPECTION. BY LIEU-
TENANT V. H. GODFREY, U. S. Navy.....
2293
THE WAR STAFF IDEA AFLOAT. BY LIEUTENANT H. J.
WRIGHT, U. S. Navy...............
UNITED STATES OCCUPATION OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC.
By COMMANDER C. C. BAUGHMAN, U. S. NAVY.......
ARE You WORTH IT? BY LIEUTENANT COMMANDER WAL-
TER E. BROWN, U. S. Navy...........
DISCUSSION ........
PROFESSIONAL NOTES .......
2341
NOTES ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIR
2407
BOOK REVIEWS .......
2414
SECRETARY'S NOTES
2423
INDEX TO VOLUME 51........................
....
2431
The writers. only are responsible for the contents of their respective articles
2298
2306
2328
2334
S
.....
Editor, Captain H. A. Baldridge; Assistant Editor, Lieutenant Com-
mander R. S. Field.
Published monthly at 450 Ahnaip St., Menasha, Wis.
Executive, Editorial, and Business Offices, U. S. Naval Institute,
Annapolis, Md.
Entered as second-class matter at the post-office at Menasha, Wis.,
April 4, 1922, and at the post-office at Annapolis, Md., under Act of Aug. 24,
ce for mailing at the special rate of postage provided for
in section 1103, Act of Oct. 3, 1919, authorized Mar. 13, 1922.
Membership dues (including Proceedings), $3.00 a year.
Subscription Rates, $5.00 a year. (Foreign postage 50c extra.) Single
copies, 50c.
Copyright, 1925, by U. S. Naval Institute


  p. 2230 (#1192)                      

OFFICERS OF THE INSTITUTE
President
REAR ADMIRAL HENRY B. WILSON, U. S. Navy
Vice-President
Vice ADMIRAL RICHARD H. JACKSON, U. S. Navy
Secretary-Treasurer
CAPTAIN H. A. BALDRIDGE, U. S. NAVY
Board of Control
REAR ADMIRAL HENRY B. WILSON, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
VICE ADMIRAL RICHARD H. JACKSON, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
BRIGADIER GENERAL GEORGE RICHARDS, U. S. MARINE CORPS
CAPTAIN W. T. CLUVERIUS, U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN W. G. DUBOSE, (CC), U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN P. B. DUNGAN, U. S. Navy
COMMANDER BYRON MCCANDLESS, U. S. Navy
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER W. G. GREENMAN, U. S. Navy
CAPTAIN H. A. BALDRIDGE, U. S. Navy (ex officio)
PAST PRESIDENTS
ADMIRAL DAVID D. PORTER, U. S. Navy, 1873
REAR ADMIRAL JOHN L. WORDEN, U. S. Navy, 1874
REAR ADMIRAL C. R. P. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1875-78
COMMODORE FOXHALL A. PARKER, U. S. Navy, 1878-79
REAR ADMIRAL JOHN RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1879-82
REAR ADMIRAL C. R. P. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1882-83
REAR ADMIRAL THORNTON A. JENKINS, U. S. Navy, 1883-85
REAR ADMIRAL EDWARD SIMPSON, U. S. Navy, 1885-87
REAR ADMIRAL STEPHEN B. LUCE, U. S. Navy, 1887-98
REAR ADMIRAL WM. T. SAMPSON, U. S. Navy, 1898-1902
REAR ADMIRAL H. C. TAYLOR, U. S. Navy, 1902-04
REAR ADMIRAL C. F. GOODRICH, U. S. Navy, 1904-09
REAR ADMIRAL RICHARD WAINWRIGHT, U. S. Navy, 1909-11
REAR ADMIRAL BRADLEY A. FISKE, U. S. Navy, 1911-23
REAR ADMIRAL WILLIAM L. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, 1923-24


  p. 2230 (#1193)                      



  p. 2230 (#1194)                      


Photo-B. M. Powell
"Fuuu Power"


  p. 2231 (#1195)                      

UNITED STATES
NAVAL INSTITUTE
P R O C E E D I N G S
Vol. No. 51, No. 12
DECEMBER, 1925
WHOLE No. 274
SEA POWER AND POCKETBOOKS
By Captain DUDLEY W. Knox, U. S. Navy, RETIRED
(6THE American motor car owns Rio.” So said an Ameri-
can naval officer recently returned from Brazil. The
further information that Yankee automobiles have cap-
tured practically the whole South American market is from the
same source. Making due allowance for conversational exaggera-
tion, evidently "quantity production" has won against our com-
mercial competitors in this profitable field, notwithstanding their
tremendous advantage of cheap labor at home.
Our exports of automobiles are now approaching the rate of a
half million per year. What this means, translated into terms
of the number of American workingmen employed and the number
of dollars in the pockets of each, we will leave to the resourceful
statistician. Certainly American imagination can reach far enough
over the horizon to comprehend the relation of this fact to the
recent revival of prosperity in the automobile industry. The
enormous plants, the great numbers of persons employed in then,
and our modern development of machinery and methods of manu-
facture, have created such an immense production capacity that the
industry must soon face hard times in the absence of extensive
foreign markets.
Between the high pressure of productive capacity and the
suction of foreign demand there is required a connection of trans-
portation, if the circuit of business and its attending prosperity is
to be completed. To understand our recent success in South
American trade and the consequent fattening of pockets among


  p. 2232 (#1196)                      

2232
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
our workingmen at home we should know something of the part
played by American shipping.
Until recently our comparatively small trade with Argentina
and Brazil was carried by a few slow foreign ships. The principal
fast routes were by way of Europe, thus making it very difficult
for us to compete in marketing the class of goods manufactured
both in Europe and America. When our government established
direct fast lines to South America, trade was greatly stimulated,
and notwithstanding initial operating losses by the shipping lines,
the country as a whole has undoubtedly reaped a large net profit
from the automobile business alone.
Of course ocean transportation is only one of the important
elements outside of our borders which enter into the general ques-
tion of marketing our exports. Banking facilities, port arrange-
ments, and commercial agencies on a background of overseas
American investments are all a part of a foreign trade structure
in which we must follow in the steps of our greatest competitors.
But American-owned ocean shipping nevertheless remains as the
keystone without which the structure will fall.
The example of our automobile trade to Latin America is merely
symptomatic of much greater things. Our huge surplus produc-
tive capacity is not limited to the manufacture of automobiles. It
exists in almost every American activity. We have applied quan-
tity production principles to a great variety of occupations, from
the construction of ships, railroads, and irrigation works to the
output of raw materials such as coal and wheat. The depths of
our stupendous capacity to produce, through Americanized appli-
cation of power and of the division of labor principle, were never
sounded until the war.
That ended, we stood astonished at our genius, and were actu-
ally confronted with the necessity of drastically cutting down the
output of everything, from grains of wheat to ocean liners. The
world had been our market and we had demonstrated our ability
to meet the needs of a large part of it.
In the hard times following the war the farmer, the miner, and
the mechanic, no less than the bond holder, had a taste of what
it means to run this giant producer country on a basis of supplying
only the home market. But for the process of "motorizing" the
United States, now largely completed, depression would have been
very acute.


  p. 2233 (#1197)                      

1925]
Sea Power and Pocketbooks
2233
Our evolution of quantity production has brought us to a con-
dition parallelled only once before in history. England was in
much the same situation before and during the Napoleonic era.
The invention of cotton spinning machinery, the advent of the
use of steam power, and the application of the division of labor
principle were the primary elements of a sudden and great ex-
pansion of that country's productive capacity to undreamed of pro-
portions. This so-called “industrial revolution” happened to co-
incide with a virtual British monopoly of the world's carrying
trade at sea. With no competition either in production or trans-
portation there seemed to be no limit to the wealth which could
be acquired; and no dream ever came more true.
For nearly a century she was the only industrialized nation, in
a modern sense. The world was her market. Even the loss of this
country as a colony did not prevent us from remaining her best
customer. Production-transportation-markets—were the trinity
of Britain's unparalleled wealth.
Today, notwithstanding the titanic expenditures of treasure
which the war forced her to make, England is probably still the
richest of nations, notwithstanding propaganda to the contrary.
In the more modern "industrial revolution" of "quantity pro-
duction” which American genius has brought about we now stand
as England did a century and more ago, only in respect to a sudden
and remarkably increased productive capacity. In the world's
markets we find, instead of a monopoly, very keen competition
from several highly industrialized nations. This we are able to
meet with reasonable success, by virtue of the cheapness and excel-
lence of quantity production products, provided the third element
of the wealth trinity—transportation—is adequately provided for.
President Wilson's far-sighted vision of restoring the American
Merchant Marine to something of its former eminence on the seas
has met with disappointment. The most recent chapter, the sale
of some 200 vessels, at about one-hundredth part of their cost
price, to be broken up for scrap metal, seems to be about con-
summated. Doubtless several important causes contributed to the
failure, but we need to give especial attention here to only two of
them, viz: (1) adverse foreign influence exerted in this country,
and (2) a seeming lack of understanding by the American people


  p. 2234 (#1198)                      


LEVIATHAN
U.S. Shipping Board
THE "LEVIATHAN"


  p. 2235 (#1199)                      

1925]
2235
Sea Power and Pocketbooks
at large of the close relation between an American Merchant
Marine and American prosperity.
As to the foreign influence we should recall the unusual episode
of President Harding making a vigorous public protest against
foreign lobbies attempting to influence national legislation, at the
time he was fighting for a subsidy. If foreign influence will go to
such lengths it is reasonable to suppose that they will employ other
easier devices. One of the “lessons” of the war which stood out
so clearly as to be beyond dispute was that our press had been
freely used for foreign propaganda, apparently for many years.
Did our competitors in the ocean carrying trade then omit anti-
American Merchant Marine propaganda and are they now neg-
lecting it? The importance of this matter would seem to make
an investigation of it worth while. Judging from the strength
of the anti-American Navy propaganda now being carried on both
here and abroad, It seems a fair assumption that much (if not all)
of the home opposition to the best interests of our mercantile sea
power could be traced to the same sources. Perhaps the failure
of our people in general to grasp the importance of having an
American ocean transportation system is due to foreign propa-
ganda.
Certainly there have been sufficient recent examples demon-
strating the dependence of our national prosperity upon American
shipping. During the Boer War, Great Britain diverted so much
shipping to war uses as to create a shortage on our coasts. Hard
times came to America as a direct result. Prosperity returned to
us with the ships. These experiences were repeated on a grander
scale during the World War. In 1915-16 we were again shown
the hard fact that prosperity requires more than the production
of goods and the dumping of them at the seaboard. We filled all
the warehouses and all the freight cars. The latter accumulated
at the salt water terminals in such numbers as to cause the greatest
of freight blockades. Finally goods had to be dumped along the
roadside and left to deteriorate in the open. Millions of farmers,
miners, and mechanics were thrown out of work through the neces-
sity of shutting down production.
The American people are not stupid. They can understand
such elementary facts in spite of the most insidious adverse propa-
ganda, if proper publicity is given to the matter. This has not
been done with sufficient persistence and scope. It is true that


  p. 2236 (#1200)                      

2236
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
for a long time the undeveloped condition of the country caused
a cessation of interest in maritime affairs, and people would not
take the trouble to think them out. But conditions are rapidly
changing and all that should be required now is correct informa-
tion upon, and analysis of, our own maritime and economic inter-
ests in our own press by our own citizens having no foreign affili-
ations.
III.
In earlier periods of our history there was no lack of appreci-
ation of the foregoing. The intimate relationship between codfish,
tobacco, pepper, tea, sugar, and so forth, on the one hand and fat
pocketbooks on the other, when linked with ocean transportation,
was well understood. In those days the American trading vessel
swarmed the seas. Then also the function of a navy as a great
agency of national prosperity was better understood.
Naval power is one of the two hands of sea power—whether we
consider a state either of peace or war. The war function of the
· Navy needs no attention here. The peace function of the Navy,
on the other hand, seems to be little understood by naval officers,
and by the public of today almost not at all. In any event, there
is no clear cut comprehension of the Navy as a great instrument of
prosperity, an important agency of the national economic welfare,
a vital factor in the price of wheat and in the wages of the indus-
trial worker. Such is the fact and it is largely the Navy's fault
that the country fails to understand. Once such a thesis is made
clear to our people the teeth of the foreign propagandist will have
been drawn and the number of anti-navy pacifists will dwindle to
insignificance. A pacifist may love peace but he loves a fat pocket-
book even more.
IV.
Within the last few years there has been no want of literature
made available to service readers respecting the many ways in
which the Navy fosters and protects our Merchant Marine and
foreign trade during peace. The history of our Navy abounds in
striking examples of splendid and vital service in this respect, from
its very beginning to the present day. Perhaps the most notable
are the Barbary operations; the opening of China, Japan, and
Korea; the West Indian operations extending over a long period,
and the current operations in China which promise to be of long
duration.


  p. 2237 (#1201)                      

1925]
2237
Sea Power and Pocketbooks
The pacifist will remark that for such work we do not need
a large navy. The answer is that we do. Competition is too
keen to permit of any long continued, stabilized, large scale trade
in the world's best markets by any weak naval power—at least
until human nature changes, and President Coolidge's remark in
his inaugural address, that the most unchangeable thing in the
world is human nature, is worth remembering.
The ratios of naval strength established by the Washington
Conference were supposed to be proportioned according to the
interests of the respective powers and to assure each a reasonable
security against aggressive action. It does not appear to be to the
commercial or other interest of any of these powers that one of
them should reduce its naval power below the agreed ratio. We
need the stabilizing check of our full Treaty Navy upon each
of them just as much as they need the check of their navy upon us
and upon others. Thus will be afforded the minimum likeli-
hood of war arising from the great commercial rivalries which lie
in the near future, and the maximum probability of fair competi-
tion, which is all that America asks.
The writer personally is in favor of a further limitation of arma-
ments provided that all reduce proportionately, and that the major
terms of Mr. Hughes' original proposal, to which all formally sub-
scribed in principle, are complied with. It will also be needful to
guard against a too drastic reduction since there is a minimum of
numbers below which navies will be inefficient in covering im-
portant large areas of ocean. Moreover universally weak navies
would simply mean that armed merchantmen would assume an ex-
aggerated importance in naval warfare and countries possessing
large merchant marines, especially of the liner type, would have
much the greatest advantage in controlling the sea and maritime
trade.
The whole question of naval ratios and naval power revolves
about commercial competition and the ocean transportation that is
essential to success in such competition. All can be reduced to
terms of individual pocketbooks.
Dependence upon foreign shipping as the vital extension of
our transportation system, from tidewater railroad terminals to
overseas markets, is certain to favor the success in those markets
of the commercial competitor who carries our goods. It is certain
to mean restricted output of our factories, mines, and farms, and
consequently lowered general prosperity and leaner pocketbooks in


  p. 2238 (#1202)                      


EU
Kindness of United States Lines
S.S. "AMERICA," OF THE UNITED States LINES


  p. 2239 (#1203)                      

19251
2239
Sea Power and Pocketbooks
the United States. A large and successful merchant marine cannot
be permanently maintained by this country without a navy of pro-
portionate size. In other words, an adequate navy is one of the
essential major elements in the pocketbook of the man on the
street. This is what the people of most of our commercial com-
petitors understand and what our own people do not. This is one
of the important aspects of our national maritime interests which
naval officers are in duty bound to make clear to the country, no
less than matters connected with the national defense in war.
V.
As an agency of the federal government under the Constitution
the Navy is properly an instrument for the promotion of the gen-
eral welfare of the nation. As previously mentioned the Navy
has always performed this function well, in its broad sphere re-
specting maritime commerce afloat. But the writer conceives that
the Navy's responsibilities do not end here and, especially in view
of certain peculiar conditions existing in the United States, are
extended to an important degree into the field of public informa-
tion and education upon maritime questions affecting the national
interests and welfare.
It may be fairly said that the great mass of Americans have little
conception of what constitutes their maritime interests, of the
vital relation between foreign trade and national prosperity, of the
intimate association between an American merchant marine and
their own pocketbooks, nor of the rôle of a navy as an agency of
the national economic welfare-in short, of the matters comprising
the main theme of this article.
The reasons for this unusual want of appreciation by the Amer-
ican people of the elementary feature of their own maritime
interests are doubtless manifold. Concentration of attention and
energy upon internal development, the size of the country, its
wealth, and what not, have played a part. But particular attention
is drawn here to that phase of the question which pertains to public
information and education. The opinions of most persons are
formed by what they hear and what they read, and the last few
generations of Americans have had little opportunity to hear or
read clear-cut and complete expositions of their own maritime in-
terests. This seems to have been brought about by the great
dearth of competent American writers and speakers, and con-


  p. 2240 (#1204)                      

2240
[Dec
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
sequently by a dependence of the American press and platforms
upon foreigners or persons of foreign affiliations. Is there any
wonder that American public opinion is now largely opposed, un-
consciously, to what are actually their perfectly legitimate and
equitable maritime interests ?
Reference to President Harding's public protest against for-
eign lobbies opposing legislation favorable to American shipping
will bear repeating here, together with the natural assumption that
the same un-American influences utilized our, perhaps innocent,
press to sway public opinion. We had another example of the
“open door” to the American press on maritime questions during
the Washington Conference, when all publicity connected there-
with was placed exclusively in the hands of a foreign publicity
organization. The gun elevation controversy furnishes another
illustration. On the first morning when it became a news item
there appeared a long editorial in one of the leading New York
papers giving a perfect presentation of the side of the case against
America. There could be no question of this paper being thor-
oughly American on general issues. Inquiries by the writer as to
its naval editor led to the information that he had been born in the
country whose side of the case he was espousing, and was possibly
still a citizen of that country. The paper was one of the kind which
is widely followed, especially on maritime questions, by the press
of the interior of the country, and whose "service" is paid for and
regularly used by many smaller papers.
Many other cases could be cited to show a widespread foreign
influence in our press upon matters affecting American interests
on the sea, but space forbids more than one more. During the last
two years an old and prominent American periodical has published
a series of articles by its naval editor, all sustaining a thesis con-
trary to the American side of a naval controversy. Practically
without exception all of the facts in the case which favor the
American side have been omitted or have received scant notice,
while all the facts of opposite import have been magnified unduly
and dwelt upon at great length. Many of the technical premises
taken are seriously in error, though this fact would not be appar-
ent to non-technical persons. Inquiry disclosed the information
that the naval editor of this periodical also had been born in the
country which his articles had defended and had not come to
America until a young man.


  p. 2241 (#1205)                      

1925]
Sea Power and Pocketbooks
2241
Several of the articles mentioned in the last paragraph contained
slurs upon American naval officers and one of them dwelt at
length upon the alleged fact that our naval officers had been trying
to deceive the country with regard to the Naval Treaty. Develop-
ing this idea the foreign-born author had the temerity and affront-
ery to advocate strongly the suppression of naval officers. Since
then a number of articles by various authors have appeared, both
in this country and abroad, the general tenor of which is to cast
discredit not only upon the judgment and intelligence of American
naval officers but upon their integrity also.
When we consider that naval officers are the only group of per-
sons in this country of any considerable numbers who are com-
petent to advise the country as to its own maritime interest-
including both commercial and naval—it appears to be high time
that we awoke to our responsibilities respecting publicity. It
scarcely seems proper to leave the prosperity of the country any
longer in the hands of persons affiliated with our commercial com-
petitors. That is the effect of the present conditions because of
the power of the press in moulding public opinion. In other coun-
tries there are large groups of civilians well versed in maritime
and naval matters. Here in America such civilians are too few
to cope with the situation; the country is too big, the people have
too little interest in, and understanding of, such affairs, and strong
unsound prejudices already exist, apparently as the result of many
years of propaganda.
The propriety and duty of naval officers participating in proper
publicity is beyond question. By law, upon being commissioned,
we each take an oath to support and defend the Constitution of
the United States. One of the cardinal objects expressed in the
preamble of that famous document is to promote the general wel-
fare of the nation created by it. We are therefore sworn to pro-
mote the general welfare of America, no less than to share in its
defense. The general welfare of America depends to a very large
degree upon her maritime power, both mercantile and naval, and
the greatest obstacle to such power at present is an uninformed or
misinformed public. This obstacle cannot be well overcome with-
out the substantial aid of the Navy in the publicity field. Our
technical education and training have been paid for out of the
public treasury. The country has every right to our technical
advice and guidance. Let it hear from us.


  p. 2242 (#1206)                      

BOMBING RADIUS AS AFFECTED BY WIND
By COMMANDER GARRET L. SCHUYLER, U. S. NAVY
TO SWIM a mile and back at two miles an hour takes sixty
minutes. But if one swims it down with, and up against, a
mile-an-hour current, one mile is made at three miles an
hour, taking twenty minutes, and the other at one mile an hour,
taking sixty minutes. The time for the round trip is thus in-
creased one third because the slower progress is made over a
longer period than the faster progress.
Similarly, when a bomber flies to an objective and back, there is
always a net loss in bombing radius if a steady wind exists. The
average condition is no more favorable than a steady wind.
Bombing radii must therefore be somewhat discounted and, as the
fact seems so generally overlooked, it may be interesting to see
what the usual effects amount to.
0= Angle of-wind with ground course.
W=Wind velocity.
W,=Wind across ground course, W Sin 0, SK Sin 8.
W. = Wind along ground course, W Cos 0, SK Cos 0.
S=Air Speed.
S.-Air speed along ground course.
S,=Air speed across ground course.
K=Ratio of wind to air speed, W = KS.
Ro=Bombing radius in calm.
Rv=Bombing radius in wind W.
f=Fraction by which Ro must be multiplied to get Ry under the given
conditions.
dR=Fraction of bombing radius lost by wind.
Sz=(S?–W,2)=S2 (1– K2 Sin? 0)....
.................I
Ro Ro Ro Ru
-+-=- t- ...
S S S.-W. Sz+W.
1-K?
Ro S,2-W,
so f= -=-
Ro S.S.
(1-K?Sinº)1/2


  p. 2243 (#1207)                      

19251
2243
Bombing Radius as Affected by Wind
By formula III, we may produce the following table:
TABLE I
Angle Between Wind and Ground Course
0° 15° 30° | 45° 60° 7 5°
|
90°
1
Avg.
.990
.992
.993
.994
.995
.980
.962
.912
Näin ist es in
.875
.969
.932
.878
.806
.715
.750
.830
.864
.708
.603
.991
.992
.993
.960
.964 .968 .974 .978
.910
.921 .931 .942 .953 .954
.840 .845 .857
.896 .915 .917
.756 .775 .800
.866
.640 .648 .670 .707 .749 .794 .800
.510 .519 1.544 .586 .640
.714
From this table may be derived the following empirical relations:
dR (max) = 1.00 (W/S).
IR (avg) = .80 (W/S).
.........V
d R (min) = .55 (W/S)2.
........... VI
and from the following comparison it appears the degree of approximation is ade-
quate.
From Table I
From IV, V and VI.
dR(max)
dR(avg) | DR(min)
dR(max) | dR(avg)
dR(min)
.010
.007
.005
.010
.008
005
.031
.040
.040
.090
ä en it is in in
.020
.046
.083
. 134
. 160
.068
.122
.194
.285
.397
.032
.072
.128
.200
.288
392
.090
.160
.250
.360
.490
.250
.360
.490
.022
.049
.188
.138
.198
.270
.200
.
.7
.286
1
According to page 60, Monthly Weather Review, Supplement
No. 20, weather at 1,000 meters altitude, the annual average of
wind velocities at six well scattered stations in the United States
is 22 knots. Taking a 60-knot bomber and assuming a steady
wind of 22 knots, the rated bombing radius (making the trip and
coming back) must be reduced never less than 7.4 per cent, 10.8
per cent on the average, and possibly as much as 13.5 per cent, de-
pending on the wind's direction.
The conclusion is that aside from all other margins which pru-
dence suggests, it is unwarranted to undertake two-way non-stop
flights with the slower planes without first discounting even the
rated endurance something on the order of 10 per cent to allow
for possible wind effects of this peculiar though readily under-
standable nature.


  p. 2244 (#1208)                      

NAVAL MINING AND NAVAL MINES
By The Late LIEUT. COMDR. OLIVER W. BAGBY, U. S. NAVY
The brief historical résumé of the history of the development and use oi
naval mines contained herein is taken from a "Study of the Mission of the
Mine Squadron,” which was prepared by Lieutenant Commander Bagby
during the time that he was mining officer of the mining squadron of the
scouting fleet. Necessarily, the confidential matter has been eliminated, but
the article is otherwise practically unchanged.
C. H. WRIGHT,
Lieutenant Commander, U.S.N.
HERE are two general classes of mines which need to be
defined before reaching a proper conception of the scope of
naval mining as distinguished from coast defense mining,
which, in the United States, is under the direction of the War De-
partment. In coast defense mining the Army uses a controlled
mine; that is, a mine whose firing circuit is led to some control
station on shore so that the mine cannot fire until an observer on
shore completes the firing circuit. The controlled mine must,
necessarily, be fixed to the bottom and must be placed in shoal
water near a shore which is commanded by our own forces. The
controlled mine then denies an area to the enemy but offers no
menace to friendly ships.
Naval mining, on the other hand, uses a contact mine, that is,
a mine whose firing circuit is complete within the mine itself so
that the mine will fire when the presence of any ship in its danger
area operates the firing mechanism. The contact mine denies the
same area to friendly ships as to the enemy. It may be a ground
mine resting on the bottom, a moored mine attached to its anchor
by means of a cable, or a drifting mine with no connection to the
bottom. The ground mine must, of course, be laid in shoal water;
the moored mine may be laid in any water where the depth is less
than five hundred fathoms; the drifting mine may be laid in any
water available to the mine-laying vessel. A description of these
types of mines will be given later.


  p. 2245 (#1209)                      

1925]
2245
Naval Mining and Naval Mines
A controlled mine is a purely defensive weapon, while the con-
tact mine may be used in a larger field either offensively or de-
fensively.
From the first use of the mine, in 1585, when vessels loaded with
explosives and fired by clockwork destroyed a bridge in the Scheldt
River, until the Russo-Japanese War in 1904, it appears that all
nations regarded the mine as a purely defensive weapon, much in
the nature of a fixed fortification for the protection of their own
ports or harbors, or for denying the enemy access to any waters
which were under their own control. This conception, or rather
this limited use of mines, left only a very small field for naval
mining. That this conception persisted in our own service even
after the Russo-Japanese War is shown by the following quota-
tions. They are taken from a letter and its endorsements which
caused the decision to remove mines from our battleships about
1910.
The mine is a purely defensive weapon.
The occasion for which particular provision should be made in use of
mines in the Navy is in connection with advanced base work.
It appears that mines now carried in battleships and armored cruisers
would rarely be used except for the fortification of an advanced base and
the mines required for such purpose would better be included in the advanced
base material handled by a special organization and carried in a special ship.
The opinion given in these quotations would limit the use of
mines to pure defense and would limit the use of such mines as
may be laid by the Navy to the fortification of an advanced base.
In a lecture delivered at our Naval War College in 1911, how-
ever, it was stated :
Now as a matter of fact, advanced base mining has nothing whatever in
common with the mining which will be required by the Navy. A different
mine is required for the two purposes and the mine ship is not fitted for
laying the type of mine which is best adapted for advanced base work.
The first war which employed naval mining in a larger field was
the Russo-Japanese War. During this war, contact mines were
extensively used by both the belligerents. The only strictly de-
fensive mine laying was done by the Russians in the bays around
Port Arthur to prevent the landing of the Japanese Army, and in
the entrance to Port Arthur to put a stop to Japanese blocking
operations. The first casualty was the sinking of two Russian


  p. 2246 (#1210)                      

2246
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
[Dec.
ships by their own hastily placed contact mines. They then de-
layed the mining of the entrance to Port Arthur until controlled
mines could be received from Russia. In this connection, an offi-
cial booklet published in 1920 entitled Joint Army and Navy
Action in Coast Defense, states :
In general, however, it must be realized that the laying of mines in our
waters is a dangerous procedure because our vessels may enter the mine
field through carelessness or some mistake or neglect in disseminating in-
formation. Mines may also break adrift and become dangerous to our
vessels.
Moored contact mines were laid offensively during the Russo-
Japanese War for the following purposes : :
a) By the Japanese to bottle up the Russians in Port Arthur.
This mining was only partially successful as the Russian mine
sweepers were able to keep a clear channel. The mine did, how-
ever, delay and hamper the movements of the Russians.
b) By both belligerents in laying mines surreptitiously on the
known cruising grounds of the enemy. This form of mining was
eminently successful. The mines were laid during the darkness
or fog, the Japanese using destroyers and small converted steam-
ers, the Russians using regular mine layers and destroyers. One
Russian and two Japanese battleships were sunk by this form of
mining
This mining may be regarded as the primary step in the offen-
sive tactics of mining, a form of tactics which was certain to de-
velop in the next war.
The Russo-Japanese War gave only one example of the use of
drifting mines. In the battle of August 10, while the Japanese
were forming their line, Japanese destroyers were sent ahead of
the Russian line. There is some question whether the destroyers
actually laid mines, although there is no doubt that they were able
to do so. An eye witness reported having seen two drifting mines.
The Russian admiral made signal: “Attention-drifting mines,”
and changed the course of the Russian fleet by four points.
Whether the Japanese destroyers actually laid mines is not im-
portant; it is important that the Russian admiral was forced, by
fear of mines, to change his course.


  p. 2247 (#1211)                      

1925)
Naval Mining and Naval Mines
2247
The following table shows the number of vessels sunk by mines
in the Russo-Japanese War:
Russian Japanese Total
Battleships ..
1 2 3
Cruisers, 2d Class ..........
O I I
Cruisers, 3d Class .........
0 1
Coast Defense Vessels, 3d Class
Mine Laying Vessels
0 1
Gunboats .....
Destroyers
2 3
Torpedo Boats
2 2
24
11 17
* Russian vessels sunk by their own mines.
After the Russo-Japanese War, all of the principal naval
powers, except the United States, gave great attention to the de-
velopment of mines, mine vessels, and mining organization, and
included the use of mines in their strategical and tactical exer-
cises. Great Britain, Japan, and Italy turned all mining over to
the navy. Austria fitted all naval vessels with mine-laying in-
stallations. England abandoned harbor defense mining entirely.
From these preparations, it is easily assumed that all nations
which gave mining serious thought and study, fully expected that
the offensive use of mines introduced in the Russo-Japanese War
would be a feature of the next naval war.
Prior to the World War, it was the intention of Germany to
mine the English ports immediately on the outbreak of war for
the purpose of delaying the mobilization of the British fleet. This
excellent plan was frustrated by the mobilization of the British
feet before war was declared. From the beginning, and through-
out the war Germany vigorously pursued a campaign of mine
laying along the English coast. For this mine laying she used
moored contact mines laid by submarines. Occasional drifting
mines were also found. This campaign forced England to adopt
practically continuous mine sweeping to keep her ports open.
To supplement the mining of English ports, the Germans also
Jaid moored mines in the vicinity of lightships, buoys, or other
navigational marks; and, in fact, at any place where they expected
either men-of-war or merchant vessels might cruise or pass. This
caused the North Sea to be more or less strewn with mines on the
chance that some of them might be effective.


  p. 2248 (#1212)                      

2248 U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
[Dec.
The Germans laid extensive fields in the Baltic and along the
eastern shores of the North Sea. These mine fields did no actual
damage to the British fleet; on the contrary they were a constant
menace to the Germans themselves. One German cruiser is known
to have been sunk by these mines. The fields were laid probably in
order to give protection to a retiring German fleet, and the known
existence of the fields did influence the tactics of the British fleet,
particularly in forcing the British battle cruisers in the Dogger
Bank action to give up the chase and to countermarch when within
fifty miles of Heligoland. This is an example of the tactical use
of moored mines for covering a retreat to a base; had the existence
of the fields not been known to the British it might have been an
example of luring an enemy over mine fields.
At the beginning of the war, England lost valuable time by not
having an efficient mine and mining organization ready for im-
mediate employment. Subsequently, British mines were laid in
the Skaggerack and Cattegat and along the eastern shores of the
North Sea in order to block the areas and channels which the Ger-
mans had left for themselves. This caused the Germans, in turn,
to adopt continuous mine sweeping to keep their North Sea bases
open.
Both England and Germany used moored contact mines defen-
sively in the protection of their naval bases. The British trusted
more to boom and net defenses, but placed mines in the nets. In
this defensive mining the controlled mine does not appear to have
been used. The Germans, using contact mines, mined themselves
in so thoroughly at Wilhelmshaven that they were unable to use
that port as an operating base. The novel reason given by them
was that the British had also mined themselves in and there was
no further prospect of an engagement between the fleets.
The biggest minin' eration of the war was the closing of the
North Sea by a Britisu field at Dover and a combined British-
American system of fields extending from the Orkneys to Nor-
way, known as the Northern Barrage. The object of these fields
was to confine German submarines to the North Sea. The fields
were laid during 1918. The Northern Barrage was not completed
when the armistice was signed; consequently the full effectiveness
was never demonstrated. Of the effect of the Northern Barrage,
Admiral Strauss stated :
With the information at present available, it appears that a total of six
submarines were destroyed in the barrage and possibly an equal number
were severely damaged.


  p. 2249 (#1213)                      

1925]
.2249
Naval Mining and Naval Mines
In the other theaters of the naval war, mines were used for
practically the same purposes stated heretofore, with one excep-
tion. During the Gallipoli campaign the Turks took advantage
of the current in the Dardanelles to launch drifting mines against
the allied ships. These mines are known to have sunk one battle-
ship and are credited with sinking two others. The Turks also
· used controlled mines with great success in connection with barbed
wire entanglements to oppose the landing of the British troops on
the Gallipoli peninsula.
The tactical use of the drifting mine in connection with a fleet
engagement, which had been so freely predicted, did not appear.
There are two probable reasons. In the first place, the North Sea,
the principal scene of the naval war, is shallow, and moored mines,
laid beforehand in known positions could be utilized in the place
of tactical mining during the progress of an engagement. In the
second place, the waters of the North Sea are so restricted, and
were already so well mined, that each side felt that further tactical
mining would offer probably as great a menace to itself as to the
enemy. It was reported that the Germans, in their raids against
English coast towns, carried mines with them in hope of sinking
pursuers, but otherwise it does not appear that mines or mine
layers were carried with either fleet.
Due to the character of the World War, merchant vessels were
probably the greatest sufferers from mines, but that mines also
sank a considerable number of men-of-war is shown by the fol-
lowing table of vessels known to have been sunk by enemy mines:
Allies Central Total
....... 6 0 6
- 3 2 5
2
2
A
2 0 2
2
hoats ....
08
.
.
.
.
.
Battleships .....
Cruisers
Light Cruisers .....
Torpedo Gunboats
Monitors
Sloops
Destroyers
Torpedo Boats ...
Mine Vessels
Commissioned Auxiliaries ..
Other Small Vessels .......
Submarines.
LAW N-acen - NNW a
ŏ w N r ät uw na na
.
.
glaooo ūONONNO
.
.
.
.
.
Total


  p. 2250 (#1214)                      

2250
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
From this brief history it may be seen how the use of mines de-
veloped from the Russo-Japanese War to the World War. In
general, mines were used for the same purposes in the two wars,
but there was an enormous increase in the number of mines laid.
The total laid in the Russo-Japanese War is not known but the
total in the World War was approximately 204,500.
While it would, of course, be unsafe to assume that the uses to .
which mines have been put in the past will be neglected in the
future, it would be just as unsafe to assume that new uses cannot
be found, or that the conditions of future wars will be identical
with the conditions of past wars. There seems to be a develop-
ment of mining which conditions of future wars may make ad-
vantageous. This is the tactical use of drifting mines. So far, we
have had for an example of this type of mining, only the fear of
the Russians that such mines had been laid by Japanese destroyers,
and the probable use of mine layers to accompany German raiding
expeditions against the English coast towns.
The menace of mines to the side which lays them has un-
doubtedly been a powerful deterrent in the past and must be care-
fully considered for the future.
This kind of mining divides itself into two classes: first, when
mines are laid surreptitiously with the object of damaging the
enemy by the mines and throwing him into confusion; second,
when mine laying is done with the knowledge of the enemy in
order to influence his tactics by his fear of the mine field. In both
cases, when actual mines are laid by our own fleet our tactics may
be influenced to our own disadvantage. In the first case the enemy
will not be harmed unless he passes directly over the mine field ;
therefore, it would seem that we should not lay tactical mines sur-
reptitiously unless we are reasonably certain that the enemy will
pass over the field, and that we do not require the area for our
own use.
In the second case, where the mines are laid in positions known
to the enemy, his tactics would be influenced by the mine field at
least as much as our own. Both fleets would, for safety, assume
an area much larger than that actually mined. The advantage
would lie entirely in our ability to select an area more valuable to
the enemy than to ourselves. Since the purpose of this mining is
to influence the enemy's tactics by his fear of the mines, the laying
of real mines is not necessary provided we can make the enemy


  p. 2251 (#1215)                      

1925)
Naval Mining and Naval Mines ·
2251
think we have laid real mines. The use of dummy mines in this
case would impose no disadvantage on our own fleet and would, if
the enemy is deceived, have the same effect on him as the laying
of real mines.
Tactical mining would appear to be advantageous as a means of
throwing an enemy cruising formation into confusion in prepara-
tion for torpedo attack; hampering deployment of an enemy; forc-
ing tactics disadvantageous to an enemy during battle for the
better effect of our own gunfire or torpedo; covering a withdrawal
or retirement of our own forces; heading off an enemy in flight.
Summarizing, the uses of naval mines as indicated by past wars
are:
a) The defense of our own fleet anchorage and bases (moored mines)
b) The closing of enemy ports (moored mines).
c) The closing of passages useful to the enemy but not needed by our-
selves (moored mines).
d) The enclosing of enemy ships in extended sea area (moored mines ).
e) The use of mine fields as a barrage behind which we may retire
(moored mines).
f) The laying of mines in the theater of war on the enemy's cruising
ground (moored mines).
9) The laying of mine fields in such position that the enemy may be
lured or forced to pass over them (moored mines).
h) The surreptitious laying of mines ahead of an enemy force (drifting
mines).
i) The laying of real or dummy mines to influence the enemy's tactics
(drifting mines).
j) The launching of mines in a current against ships at anchor (drifting
mines).
TYPES OF MINES
As stated before, the dividing line in our services between mines
used by the Army and those used by the Navy is established by
the method of firing the mine. The army controlled mine is capable
of being fired by an observer on shore, the naval contact mine
carries its firing mechanism complete within the mine itself and
fires when contact is made with any vessel.
The controlled mine must be fixed to the bottom in a definite
known location. It may be either a ground mine, that is, the mine
and its anchor remaining together in one unit resting on the bot-
tom; or the mine itself may be buoyant and moored to its anchor
by means of a cable. The choice of employment between these


  p. 2252 (#1216)                      

2252
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
two types of controlled mines depends upon the depth of water
and the character of bottom, and upon the method of control to
be used.
Controlled mines are ordinarily placed in groups of from seven
to nineteen mines. Circuits are led to shore which enable the ob-
server to fire all groups or all mines of one group simultaneously;
or to fire any particular mine of a group. There are three methods
of controlling the mines :
a) The observer, or observers, on shore plot the track of an
enemy vessel and close the contact when the vessel is observed to
be over a mine or group of mines. This method requires that the
location of the mine field be visible from the control station.
b) Each mine, when contact is made with a vessel, makes a sig-
nal in the control station on shore so that the observer may fire
the mine. In this method, the location of the mine field need not
be visible from the control station, but the observer must be in-
formed of the location of friendly vessels.
c) The firing contacts on shore may be kept closed to make the
mine practically an automatic contact mine for enemy vessels; the
contacts on shore being opened to permit the passage of friendly
vessels. In this method, the location of the mine field need not
be visible from the control station, but operator must be instructed
when to open a channel for friendly vessels.
In commenting on the use of controlled mines, one of the lead-
ing authorities on mining in our Navy states:
The use of controlled mines is limited to the defense of harbor en-
trances and approaches in situations where suitable control points may be
established within good visibility. Such mines are large and bulky and
their handling is encumbered by heavy anchors and control connections. To
plant a mine field of this kind is a comparatively slow operation, requiring
good weather and fairly smooth sea. Hence, controlled mines are unsuitable
for use on the high sea or in any mining operations involving the laying
of mines in considerable number at command and in a short time. The
chief value of controlled mines lies in their suitability for mining channels
through which innocent or friendly traffic is to continue. Their use is only
defensive, and unless adequately protected by batteries or patrol vessels,
they may be swept up or their connections severed by dragging.
The naval contact mine may also be either a ground mine or a
moored mine; or it may be a drifting mine, which has no con-
nection with the bottom but floats freely on the surface or a short
distance underneath the surface.


  p. 2253 (#1217)                      

1925]
Naval Mining and Naval Mines
2253
The contact mines used during the Russo-Japanese War were
almost exclusively moored mines. It is not known exactly what
type of anchor was employed; it was probably an automatic anchor
which set the mine at a predetermined distance below the surface
but did not permit mine laying except at slow speed. After the
Russo-Japanese War, when the importance of mining was real-
ized, successful efforts were made to develop an automatic anchor
which would permit the mine to be laid at any speed. The result
of these efforts was an automatic anchor, which first forms with
the mine a buoyant unit in which no mechanism operates until
outside the region of turbulent water near the rudder and pro-
pellers.
The present type of anchor is quite satisfactory, provided it
functions as designed. Future developments will probably be in
the direction of increased reliability. During the World War, the
British at one time contemplated giving up the automatic anchor
because of the danger that one anchor with faulty operation might
leave a mine case on the surface and thus disclose the location of
a whole field. The alternative of using an anchor with a fixed
length of mooring cable with necessity of knowing beforehand
the exact depth of water in which the mine is to be laid, is so dis-
advantageous that it will probably never come into general use.
With the advent, prior to the World War, of the submarine
mine layer, the mine and anchor instead of first forming a buoyant
unit were required, for submarines, to sink in order to clear the
mine tube. In this type, the mine and anchor first sink to the bot-
tom. Later, by a delay release, the mine case rises and sets the
length of its mooring cable by hydrostatic pressure at the level of
the mine case. There are objections to this type and it probably
will not come into general use for surface mine layers.
The firing mechanisms of contact used in the World War were:
1) Inertia.
2) Mechanical.
3) Electro-chemical.
4) Electric.
The inertia firing mechanism which operates to close a circuit by
the movement of an inertia ball or plunger when the mine is
struck, appeared largely in the early designs of mines. It was
probably used on contact mines during the Russo-Japanese War.


  p. 2254 (#1218)                      

2254
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The mine with this firing mechanism is liable to be fired by wave
action and is sensitive to countermining.
Prior to the World War, the Italian Elia mine was most popu-
lar in all navies with exception of the German and Austrian serv-
ices. The Elia mine had a purely mechanical firing mechanism,
operated by a horizontal firing lever pivoted around the mooring
cable at its junction with the mine case. Rotation of the firing
lever relatively to the mine case unlocked a bayonet joint and
allowed the strain of the mooring cable to cock and trip the firing
pin as the mine case was released from the mooring cable. Tests
of this type of firing mechanism did not indicate reliability, only
about twenty-five per cent of the mines firing on “bumping" tests.
At the beginning of the World War, the British had only Elia
mines but soon abandoned them. The United States issued them
to naval districts in 1917, but so far as is known, none of them
were ever laid. However, a type of firing mechanism which fires
the mine as the mine case is rising toward the surface has distinct
advantages, and may reappear in the future design.
The most widely used mine during the World War was the
electro-chemical mine. In this mine, contact by a ship breaks a
glass tube inside a horn projecting from the mine case. An elec-
trolyte, usually sulphuric acid, then escapes from the tube and
runs into the container of a primary cell inside the mine case.
Upon receipt of this electrolyte, the primary cell generates the
current to fire the detonator. This type of firing mechanism as
used by the German and Austrian services was very reliable, but
the British had considerable difficulity in obtaining a glass which
would not break on explosion of a neighboring mine and thus
allow a whole field to be countered. Their anti-submarine barrage
at Dover was exploded entirely, early in 1918, by countermining.
The activities of German submarines in the World War made
a strong demand for a mine to be used against subsurface craft.
Contact mines prior to the war had been designed for use against
surface craft and required, for firing, that a vessel make contact
with the mine itself or with a firing buoy at a short distance above
the mine case. The danger area of such mines was small and the
number required to block a large area against submarines was
prohibitive. The mine which we employed in the Northern Bar-
rage was designed to meet the demand for larger danger area.
The mine carried a vertical antenna supported by buoys, and was


  p. 2255 (#1219)                      

1925)
2255
Naval Mining and Naval Mines
designed to fire on the contact of a vessel with horns on the mine
case, or with any part of the antenna. The length of the antenna
was from thirty-five to seventy feet, depending upon the depth
at which the mine case was set and upon the destructive radius of
the explosive charge at that depth. It increased the danger area
of the mine in the vertical direction by several hundred per cent,
and a much smaller number of mines was then required for an
effective anti-submarine barrage.
During the World War, the constant use of the paravane and
continuous mine sweeping operations robbed moored mines of a
great deal of their effectiveness. The mine sweeping of English
ports led the Germans to experiment with mines designed to defeat
mine sweeping. Their first attempt was a mooring cable contain-
ing a device to permit passage of a sweep wire without cutting the
mine adrift. It was not successful. The next attempt was what
was called the “Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday” mine. This ex-
pressive name was given because the mine laid by submarines had
a long delay on the bottom before leaving its anchor and then the
mines of a field would rise on successive days. The use of this
mine required vessels to be gathered in convoys and to be led in
and out of port by mine sweepers.
The demand for a mine which will defeat mine sweeping is still
strong. The antenna mine partially defeats the present paravane
as contact of the towing wire will fire the mine as well as contact
with the hull.
Another demand at the present time is a larger weight of ex-
plosive in each mine in order to increase its destructive effect.
The maximum weight of high explosive carried by moored con-
tact mines during the World War was approximately 300 pounds ;
and more recent underwater protection, principally on capital
ships, will require a larger weight of explosive in order to have a
destructive effect on capital ships at the desired radius.
One big weakness of the moored mine is its dip in a current,
causing great variations in the depth of the mine. Closely allied
with this weakness is the unsuitability of the ordinary moored
contact mine against surface craft in places where there is a large
rise and fall of tide. The mine case, in order to escape detection,
and in order to do serious injury to a large ship, should not be less
than fifteen feet below the surface. If the mine has a depth of
fifteen feet at low slack water this depth may be increased at high


  p. 2256 (#1220)                      

2256
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings [Dec.
water or in a strong current so that a ship of moderate draft can
pass over the mine field.
The foregoing discussion has dealt primarily with the moored
contact mines. The drifting contact mine, although having the
same characteristics in the firing mechanisms, differ radically in
the arrangement for depth taking. As regards depth taking, the
drifting inines are divided into two classes :
1) The fixed depth mine which has a slight negative buoyancy
and is suspended from a small buoy floating on the surface.
2) The oscillating mine which has no supporting buoy, but regu-
lates its depth by hydrostatic pressure or by vertical movement
of the mine in the water.
The advantage of the fixed depth type of drifting mines is its
simplicity. No elaborate or delicate mechanism is required to keep
the mine at its proper depth. The advantage of the oscillating
type is the absence of any indication on the surface of the location
of the mine. Drifting mines have been so little used in the past
that no line is clearly marked for their future development.
After the Russo-Japanese War certain limitations were placed
on the design and use of mines by Convention VIII of the Second
Hague Conference of 1907. This Convention is binding only when
all belligerents have ratified or adhered. The only principal naval
power which has not yet ratified the Convention is Italy. The
Convention prescribed :
a) It is forbidden to lay automatic contact mines off the coasts or
ports of the enemy with the sole object of intercepting commercial shipping:
b) Mines are to become inoperative within a limited time, precautions
must be taken to safeguard peaceful shipping, and the neutral nations must
be notified of danger zones as soon as military exigencies permit;
c) Anchored contact mines must become harmless as soon as they have
broken loose from their moorings;
d) It is forbidden to lay unanchored automatic contact mines except
where they are so constructed as to become harmless one hour at the most
after the person who laid them ceases to control them.
Manifestly, the first two conditions accomplish very little in
limiting the use of mines by a belligerent. The last two conditions
appear to have been quite generally disregarded in the World War.
except when observing them was to the interest of the side which
laid the mines. Our own anchored mines were so designed that
they became ineffective if they broke adrift, and our drifting


  p. 2257 (#1221)                      

1925)
2257
Naval Mining and Naval Mines
mines are designed with a sinking valve to sink the mines one hour
after they are laid.
In the design of all mines, the safety of the laying vessel is an
important consideration, and mines contain safety features to
make them inoperative while the mines are on board and for a
short time after they have been laid. The control over the con-
tact mine ceases, however, after the mine first becomes inoperative,
and a mine which combines the simplicity of the contact mine with
the safety of the controlled mine is yet to be found.


  p. 2258 (#1222)                      


U.S.N. Official Photo
THE PN9-I ON BOARD THE U.S.S. "PELICAN," EN ROL'TE TO PEARL HARBOR, T.H.


  p. 2259 (#1223)                      

NAVAL AIRCRAFT IN INTERNATIONAL LAW
By LIEUTENANT FORREST SHERMAN, U. S. Navy :
THE application of existing international law and agreements
I to the use of aircraft in maritime warfare presents many
questions of interest not only to naval aviators but to all
naval officers. The rapid increase in size and cruising radius of
aircraft and the limited number of precedents on record leave
many aspects of the subject open to contention and future settle-
ment.
For instance what is the position of an airplane in international
law? Is it a regularly commissioned war vessel like a submarine,
an auxiliary craft like a ship's boat, or is it merely a weapon like
a tank or an armored motor car? During the last war and in the
post-war settlements, where most of the points at issue arose over
the use of airplanes over land frontiers and in connection with
land warfare, the indication was toward the latter view, particu-
larly in the countries of continental Europe. A military single
seater may very easily be considered to be a flying machine-gun-
mount and the pilot to be the gunner. However, it is hard to
imagine a giant dirigible as being anything short of a regularly
commissioned war vessel, and it seems highly probable that the
future view will incline toward the man-of-war classification. A
large flying boat carrying pilots, engineers, gunners, and radiomen
certainly is as much a war vessel as a submarine, and if it so
recognized why not extend such recognition to all naval aircraft
and correspondingly accord to large civilian aircraft engaged in
international commerce the same rights, privileges, and obligations
now accorded to neutral merchantmen?
The principle of the sovereignty of the air has now become.gen-
erally accepted and during the World War the claims of neutral
countries that neutral atmosphere corresponded to neutral terri-
tory were recognized by all the combatant powers except Great
Britain. On the occasion of the bombing at Friedrikshafen by
airplanes of the Royal Naval Air Service, certain planes passed


  p. 2260 (#1224)                      

2260
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
over Swiss territory. Great Britain apologized for the incident
but added that the sovereignty of the air was not recognized. The
incident is noteworthy because history shows that a point of view
once adhered to in time of war and later changed during peace-
time settlements and readjustments is often revived and closely
adhered to in the stress of later wars, either as a measure of ex-
pediency or as a measure of retaliation.
At the present time the advocates of the so-called freedom of
the air over land and territorial waters are few indeed, although
the air over the high seas is as free as the high seas themselves.
Article I of the Convention of 1919 relating to International Air
Navigation reads as follows: "The Contracting States recognize
that every State has complete and exclusive sovereignty in the air
space above its territory and territorial waters.”
It is generally conceded that a neutral state has the right to have
the neutrality of its atmosphere respected by belligerents and to
prohibit the passage of belligerent military and naval aircraft over
its territories and territorial waters. With this right goes, of
course, the corresponding duty of enforcement.
The history of the last war affords many examples of such en-
forcement. The Dutch government enforced its neutrality by
seizing all belligerent airplanes found within its borders and did
not hesitate to fire without warning on belligerent aircraft found
in flight over its territories. On July 10, 1915, the Dutch govern-
ment stated to the German government in reply to a German pro-
test against the internment of an aviator who lost his way and
landed in Holland :
If an airplane is found over Dutch territory, it is immediately a target
for fire, this being the sole method of enforcing respect for the territory's
neutrality. If the aviator lands on the territory of the kingdom, whether
voluntarily or as the result of the firing or for any other reason, he is
interned with his aeroplane. The fact that the aeroplane has flown over
Dutch territory or even that it has merely landed there, suffices to justify
this measure.
On February 1, 1916, the German airship L-19, which was in
trouble and required assistance, flew over Dutch territory after an
unsuccessful effort to obtain assistance from a trawler. She was
fired on by Dutch troops. The German government protested the
action of the Dutch in firing without warning on the grounds that
the airship was acting under force majeure in approaching Dutch


  p. 2261 (#1225)                      

1925) Naval Aircraft in International Law
2261
territory. The Dutch government stated that belligerent aircraft
should "keep at such a distance from the land and sea frontiers
of Holland as to escape all possibility of being brought over Dutch
territory, even by error or owing to atmospheric conditions.” It
stated further: “A neutral state is justified in opposing by force
every passage of its frontiers by belligerent aircraft, unless they
indicate by a white flag, or other signal, their intention to land.”
In 1916 a neutral Roumanian aircraft was fired on by Bul.
garian troops. This is the only instance known of such drastic
action being taken against a neutral aircraft penetrating belliger-
ent atmosphere.
Danish and Roumanian airplanes were used to give chase to,
and thus warn off, belligerent aircraft which penetrated those two
countries.
In September, 1917, a German seaplane made a forced land-
ing in Dutch territorial waters. Another German seaplane at-
tempted to tow it away but was forced to cease the attempt by the
fire of a Dutch torpedo boat.
The internment of seaplanes was the subject of a lively contro-
versy between the Dutch and British governments. The British
made no protest against the internment of seaplanes which en-
tered Holland by air, but took the position that a seaplane which
either taxied in or was towed should not have been interned. A
number of British naval seaplanes were rescued at sea and taken
into Dutch ports. The British stated that the seaplanes "would
never have come into the possession of the Netherlands govern-
ment at all if they had been left alone by the Dutch subjects who
brought them into the Netherlands ports.”
Their internment was protested on the grounds that they could
have been salvaged by the British Navy if left at sea. It is to be
noted that in this case the British government insisted on seaplanes
entering territorial waters on the surface being treated as surface
craft and it is believed that this distinction will be adhered to in
the future.
Flying officers rescued by the Dutch from their damaged planes
at sea were treated as shipwrecked mariners and returned to their
respective countries.
It is now a matter of established precedent that belligerent air-
craft which land in neutral waters should be interned. The making
of such a distinction between aircraft and surface craft seems


  p. 2262 (#1226)                      

2262
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
most illogical. It seems probable that they will eventually be ac-
corded the same treatment but it seems more likely that neutral
ports will be closed to all than opened to all.
The question of whether an airplane is a ship or a weapon comes
up again in the case of the sale of airplanes and airships either
armed or unarmed to a belligerent power by the citizens of a neu-
tral state. If the airplane is considered to be a vessel such a sale
constitutes a decided breach of neutrality. If the aircraft is
merely a weapon it is a case of traffic in contraband. In the In-
structions for the Navy of the United States Governing Maritime
Warfare, aircraft are listed as contraband and no mention is made
of their character as vessels. It is fairly probable, however, that
the sale of one large rigid airship or of one large flying boat by a
private neutral corporation to a belligerent would be considered
an unneutral act and would create an overwhelming sentiment in
favor of rescinding the contraband classification and of consider-
ing all complete aircraft as vessels.
Another phase of warfare which raises questions of interest
is the use of aircraft in blockade operations. Existing rules ap-
plicable are few indeed and yet there are some precedents which
can be examined.
In the Washington Treaty of February, 1922, the signatory
powers agreed to the following as established parts of international
law:
A merchant vessel must be ordered to submit to visit and search to deter-
mine its character before it can be seized.
A merchant vessel must not be attacked unless it refuse to submit to visit
and search after warning, or to proceed as directed after seizure.
A merchant vessel must not be destroyed unless the crew and passengers
have been first placed in safety.
The American position on the application of the above rules to
aircraft was set forth at the Hague in 1923, although no common
agreement was reached, as follows:
Aircraft are forbidden to visit and search surface or subsurface vessels
without conforming in all respects to the rules to which surface vessels
authorized to conduct visit and search, are subject.
In view of the irregularities to which the use of aircraft against merchant
vessels might give rise, it is declared that aircraft cannot deviate a merchant
vessel from its course without boarding it; that in no event may an aircrait
destroy a merchant vessel unless the crew and passengers of such vessel
have first been placed in safety, and that if an aircraft cannot capture a


  p. 2263 (#1227)                      

1925]
2263
Naval Aircraft in International Law
merchant vessel in conformity with these rules, it must desist from attack
or from seizure, and permit such vessel to proceed unmolested.
Before accepting this position it would be well to review the
status of the right of maritime capture in general. This right to
capture and confiscate enemy merchant ships and cargoes wherever
found outside neutral jurisdiction and to capture neutral merchant
ships which offend against neutrality has been claimed for genera-
tions as a legitimate means of carrying on maritime warfare. At
different periods in history the general principle has been accepted
or denied depending on the relative strength of neutral and bellig- '
erents, the progress in instruments of warfare, the tendency
toward reprisals and the general character of the war.
In general the permanent restrictions on the exercise of the right
have been only those of humanity; if the safety of personnel can
be secured the exercise of the right by aircraft cannot be denied.
The tendency of modern warfare is more and more toward les-
sening the distinction between combatants and noncombatants and
toward a struggle between two entire peoples. It is certainly just
as humane for an aircraft to order the personnel of an enemy
merchant ship to take to their boats and then sink the ship, as it
is for other craft to bombard a defended port or to torpedo a trans-
port. The destruction of a merchant ship has, in these days of
universal insurance, become a blow not to the individual owner
but to the entire people, distributed in increased costs of insurance
rates.
The act of a merchant vessel carrying cargo to a belligerent
nation is very little different from that of a naval supply vessel
carrying the same materials from the belligerent port to the bellig-
erent naval force. It is therefore illogical to claim privileged treat-
ment for one which is not granted the other.
The distinction between attack by aircraft on merchant vessels
and the unrestricted submarine warfare of 1917-18 lies in afford-
ing personnel an opportunity to abandon ship. Moreover to quote
from a recent professional paper : "History affords no instance of
a nation losing a desperate war for its existence without using
every means at its disposal to win, and it is even more doubtful if
there will be such cases in the future.".
The visit and search of a surface craft by a seaplane is not im-
possible but will often be difficult due either to heavy seas or to the


  p. 2264 (#1228)                      

2264
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
loss of the seaplane's offensive power and also the loss of its
elusiveness as a target when taxying on the surface. The latter
consideration can be removed by operating seaplanes in pairs, one
to remain in the air while the other alights and acts as a boarding
craft.
During the war there were various instances of visit and search
by aircraft. A Dutch steamer was boarded by one of a flight of
three German seaplanes and forced to proceed into port.
The Norwegian bark Royal was searched by a boarding party
from the German airship L-23. The zeppelin ordered a ship's
boat sent to receive the boarding party, which after an inspection
of the cargo outside Hantsholm left a prize crew of three on board
which took the Royal into Cuxhaven under escort by L-23.
The German raider Wolf used a float seaplane in her operations
against allied commerce with remarkable success. The seaplane
dropped a message on the deck of the New Zealand vessel Wai-
runa which ordered her to cease using radio and steer toward the
Wolf under penalty of being bombed. The American sailing ship
Winslow and the Japanese steamer Hitachi Maru were captured
by similar measures. In the case of the Hitachi Maru it became
necessary for the seaplane to drop first a warning bomb and then
a second bomb which blew two men overboard before the steamer
obeyed.
The construction of large airships for commercial purposes
such as the Los Angeles or the ships of the projected commercial
airship line between Great Britain and India will bring up the
question of the status of commercial aircraft in the zone of opera-
tions. Such craft cannot be searched by any belligerent craft and
therefore a belligerent power would be forced to bar them from
the zone of operations under penalty of attack. Aircraft entering
such a barred zone would naturally be considered as enemies and
subject to attack without warning. In declaring any such zone,
however, it must be incumbent on the belligerent to restrict its
limits to an area in which he actually controls both surface and air.
This is a departure from the rules of surface blockade but a justi-
fiable one. In this case the operation of commercial aircraft would
be considered analogous to the movement of vehicles between the
lines of contending armies rather than to the operation of neutral
commercial vessels in the vicinity of contending fleets.


  p. 2265 (#1229)                      

CONTROL OF THE SEAS BY AN AIR
DEPARTMENT
By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER H. M. KIEFFER, U. S. Navy
IN AN economic sense, two extreme types of nations may be
recognized : the nation which produces and exports raw ma-
terials and imports manufactured articles; and the nation
which does not produce raw materials but imports them, manu-
factures from them, and exports the manufactured product. Of
course, no nation is a perfect representative of one or the other
type. Every nation represents a combination of the two, leaning,
however, toward one of the two extremes.
The first, or producing type of nation has nothing serious to
fear from isolation, provided she can defend her boundaries. Her
people can feed and clothe and house themselves, perhaps not with
the degree of luxury to which they have been accustomed, but at
least sufficiently to sustain life. The second, or manufacturing
type cannot stand isolation, whether or not she can defend her
boundaries. In war they must fight for free avenues of import or
export, failing which they are thrown into economic disorder
through the stoppage of manufacture and the resultant numbers
of people thrown out of work, and finally cannot subsist their
populations. .
During the first century of its existence, the United States was
primarily a producing nation. It is a producing nation still, to the
extent that with a degree of economic reorganization (forced, of
course) she could subsist and clothe her population. But she has
progressed rapidly in the matter of manufactures to the point
where this necessary reorganization would be a severe upheaval.
And this progress, to judge from the "go and get it” standard of
American salesmanship, will continue, rendering isolation in an
economic sense more and more serious a problem. A foreign cot-
ton expert, quoted in the press some time ago, said,
The capacity of the United States for raw cotton is incredible. It is
growing by leaps and bounds. Can you imagine a United States importing
cotton? That condition is a probability.


  p. 2266 (#1230)                      

2266
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
This cotton is not to be used, finally, by the people of this country;
it will be manufactured and a great part of it exported for sale
The United States is becoming an importer of raw materials.
As this importation grows, with its accompaniment of sales of
exports abroad, our problem of national defense becomes an in-
volved one. The policy of accepting isolation, and shutting our-
selves up, China-wise, behind an impregnable boundary, becomes
·more and more impracticable, if not impossible, because of the
grave economic and social disturbances which would follow in
its wake.
We face the problem of defense of our avenues of communica-
tion with our sources of raw material and our customers. The
very bulwarks of our defense as a producing nation, the oceans,
render our defense as a manufacturing nation difficult. Thou-
sands of miles of sea communications must be guarded, that is,
means of defense (or tactical offense) must be available all along
the trade routes. And then, of course, there is the problem of the
defense of, and the furnishing of supplies and munitions to, the
Philippines, Hawaii, Alaska, Porto Rico, and others. This prob-
lem merges with the first one.
In European countries these problems are faced in a matter-
of-fact fashion. The cost of building new cruisers is discussed in
terms of the cost of trade protection per mile of trade route, of
communications per mile of sea travel. Battles such as Coronel,
the Falklands, the Alabama vs. the Kearsarge, and the results of
such cruises as those of the Alabama and the Emden, have such a
powerful effect on the economic situation of nations at war that
they approach decisiveness much more than did Jutland, where the
situation after the battle was much the same as at the time of
mobilization of the two fleets. Coronel and the cruise of the Em-
den boosted marine insurance rates, fostered German support in
South America, and interfered with the precious food supply to the
Allies. The battle of the Falklands and the sinking of the Emden
had the opposite effect.
It will be noted that all these battles took place far from the
countries whose fleets were engaged. It is certain that the point at
which an enemy attempts to cut our trade routes or lines of com-
munication will be a point where we are weakest, that is, a point
farthest from our bases.


  p. 2267 (#1231)                      

1925]
2267
Control of Seas by Air Department
In the air service controversy now raging in the press, the words
"National Defense” are frequently used—apparently misused or
used with an appreciation of only a part of their meaning. The
ultimate idea of the proponents of a separate air service seems to
be a close girdle of air stations built around the country which will
attack any invading enemy who comes within their radius of action.
No ideas are expressed, usually, on the subject of the use of
aeroplanes in mid-ocean to defend lines of communication. The
best defense is a good offense, of course—seeking the enemy out
and fighting when we find him. If he is elusive we must at the
same time fall back on the passive defense—a waiting game—all
along our lines of communication. Defeating commerce raiders
is a long drawn out affair, involving the use of numerous dis-
persed forces. Can the aeroplane or airship, unaided, remain in
the air long enough to seek the enemy or can it remain in mid-
ocean doing convoy or patrol work? Not at present nor apparently
in the near future.
It will be noted that the one agency in this country which has
most consistently pushed the distance and duration element in
flying, has been the Navy, and that its recent attempts in this direc-
tion have been the target of attack by the leading proponents of
a united air service.
The aeroplane in protracted operations in mid-ocean must be
based on naval vessels or their equivalent. Now, supposing that
we have a separate air service and that it works in conjunction
with the Navy, the strategical and tactical elements in this coopera-
tion must be controlled by one or the other. Dual control is fatal.
Will the air force take charge or will the Navy? And if the
Navy, which has the strategic experience, takes charge, will there
be avenues for objection to naval strategical decisions via the Air
Department? Or, if the air force takes charge, will there be any
possibility of delay due to naval objections via Washington ? And
how about the well-known passing of the buck?
The largest program of actual military operations in which two
governmental departments took part during the late war was the
Gallipoli campaign, which was decidedly not a success. And suc-
cess was lacking, according to Churchill's World Crisis, because of
lack of coordination between the fountain heads of authority, the
War Office and the Admiralty. Dual control is a delicate, tricky
method of operation. History speaks for unified command, the


  p. 2268 (#1232)                      

2268
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
last great instance being Pershing's support of Foch and the re-
sulting unified command in France. The bare fact that an or-
ganized naval transport force carried our Army to France
successfully and smoothly—a task of magnitude but not of great
complication has been the subject of surprised comment. Am-
phibious operations are generally regarded as delicate subjects.
One department, one chain of command, should control naval
and aerial cooperation at sea.
The historical precedents for the establishment of separate
services point to the axiom that if an arm (as cavalry, artillery)
can be used without dependence on other arms, it stands by itself
and becomes a service. Take the cannon, for instance. It makes
its appearance in European history in 1346, in the battle of Crecy,
surrounded by a group of learned operators who are not soldiers,
and cooperates with longbowmen, arbalisters, pike-men, armored
knights, and so forth. Now if the cannon, unaided by these vari-
ous foot and horse soldiers, could have taken the field and fought
unaided, we would undoubtedly have seen the expansion of the
group of civilian gunners into an “artillery department" conduct.
ing its own strategy. The cannon on land, however, to this day
depends for its successful use on the cooperation of infantry,
cavalry, and recently, aeroplanes, and each of these arms depends
on it. (Artillery, properly speaking, cannot occupy, any more
than can the aeroplane. Discussion of this, however, belongs in a
military rather than a naval paper.)
Ships were once regarded as appendages of an army. The
known seas at that time were restricted and navigation* was just
becoming distinct from piloting.** Generals commanded fleets,
which furnished decks, as a substitute for land, upon which sol-
diers could engage in hand-to-hand fighting. Enter the cannon,
and the world is informed by the defeat of the Spanish Armada
that a new independent method of fighting—the gun on a ship
platform—has been evolved. There follows the divorce of army
and navy, because the navy, conducting campaigns independently
of the army, has no need of continuous army support. The navy
takes charge of the strategical control of its own affairs.
The same course of reasoning will hold good for the air forces,
if history is a guide. When aeroplanes keep the air and control
*i.e. cruising out of sight of land.
** i.e, cruising along coast.


  p. 2269 (#1233)                      

1925)
Control of Seas by Air Department 2269
areas of ocean by themselves without help from naval vessels,
then the time for a separate air department will have come. But
not now.
(It is the writer's personal opinion that in time, undetermined,
aeroplaning will become about as usual as automobiling, and that
a plane may some time be able to cruise about the Pacific or At-
lantic for weeks. When this time comes the navy will be found
to have changed. The change will not have been a sudden one, .
but will have been a growth, as was in a much more limited way
the change from sail to steam. The navy may then be mainly the
naval air service, applying the old strategical principles with new
gear.)
A veteran who had served in the ranks during the Civil War
said to the writer: "Esprit de corps starts at the bottom. At first
we had company spirit, exemplified in near-riots between com-
panies. Then came regimental spirit, with much parade of regi-
mental insignia. Next, after going through several battles, we
acquired an esprit d'armée, and then," he said earnestly, "we had
a wonderful war machine.”
Esprit de corps is a great thing. All branches of the Navy have
it-air force, destroyers, submarines, and so on. It is shown by a
love of, and deep belief in, the weapons the branch in question
uses. To the thinking man it becomes merged with what may be
called the naval spirit—the feeling of comradeship for the Navy
as a whole. This naval spirit, in peace-time, is a thing of slow
growth. Partisanship for one's branch is natural. The torpedo
school graduate emerges upon a cynical world, “breathing, eating,
and sleeping” torpedoes. And the better man he is, the better
work he does with his torpedoes, the more firmly does he believe
that the gun is an obsolescent weapon, and should be properly sub-
ordinated to the beloved "whale.” He argues, writes long screeds
to this end, and on occasion has been known to engage in fights
with other ensigns, caused by differences in opinion. His partisan-
ship renders him blind to the difficulties involved in a successful
torpedo attack, and to the progress being made in torpedo defense.
He either bends facts to do service to his theories or else ignores
the facts. Later on he leaves torpedo duty, is ordered elsewhere,
and sees the other side of the shield. He learns to discriminate be-
tween insurmountable obstacles and those which can be mastered.


  p. 2270 (#1234)                      

2270 U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings (Dec.
The guns and the torpedo and other weapons appear to him in
proper perspective. He becomes balanced, rounded out.
Esprit de corps in the air forces is at an extremely high level.
Numbers of officers in these branches have had no experience
other than in aviation. They exult in their ability as pilots, delight
in the feeling of danger involved in flying, and regard their ma-
chines with the same affection which the cavalryman bestows upon
his horse. A fierce pride renders them contemptuous of other
less spectacular methods of making war. They delight in the
mastery of engine technique, and this commendable absorption in
the details of their immediate duties, while making them excellent
pilots, renders them, to an extent, blind to the larger view of avia-
tion cooperating with other branches. They gladly accept arduous
tests as a form of athletic exercise, without seeing that the test is
dictated by a forward reaching strategy. These men have am-
bition. It was not with the idea of encouraging recruiting that
Napoleon made his famous remark “Every private carries a mar-
shal's baton in his knapsack.” It was with the realization that an
ambitionless man is little more good than a dummy. Every rank-
ing officer looks forward, or should, to command of a fleet or
army. Ambition burns within the breasts of these aviators, they
face the prospect of tours of duty with other branches, which is
the one thing to round them out and fit them for the coordination
required in the higher ranks, and they ask themselves, “Is there
not some way to avoid this additional study and work away from
our chosen specialty, and still hold our chances of high rank?"
And the united air service project shows them the way. “No
need to study the ways of the navy that floats or the army that
walks! Aviation can wage a war all by itself !” And an esprit
de corps so strong that a close analyst will find it used as a sub-
stitute for certain forms of discipline, comes to the aid of this
decision.
Self-preservation is the first law of nature. It works openly
in the lower orders of creation, but more quietly and surrepti-
tiously in man. One would say that the private charging from
the trench with his bayonet had conquered the instinct of self-
preservation. He has only smothered it. When he has crossed
no man's land and actually meets an enemy it comes forth all the
more sharply for its internment, and he fights like a tiger. Which


  p. 2271 (#1235)                      

1925]
2271
Control of Seas by Air Department
explains the fact that men usually timorous are often terrible in
action.
This instinct is present in our daily life. It colors our actions,
and inclines us to those directions in which an advantage to our-
selves may be found, though we may not be conscious of its
workings.
A man's opinions result from the workings of his reason, con-
stantly adding, substracting, balancing cause against cause, fact
against fact, effect against effect. A man's mind may be com-
pared to a cauldron in which are to be brewed his opinions. The
man himself adds various ingredients, and then, quietly, probably
without his knowledge, in slips the ingredient of self-preservation.
It colors the brew, the opinion, almost unconsciously.
In weighing the pros and cons of a separate air service, does this
instinct of self-preservation affect us? The writer is of the opinion
that it does. It takes a sturdy-minded man to see promotion, high
promotion, coming for himself with the advent of a separate air
service, and not be influenced by it. Generals will be created,
lieutenant generals, major generals, and brigadier generals, also
colonels of the air. And all to be selected from a body of com-
paratively young fliers. The prospect is enough to turn a man's
head, particularly those to whom the senior commissions will fall.
On the one hand, years of being a comparatively minor cog in a
military machine; on the other, immediate recognition as one of
the elect.
The hard part of all this for the Navy is that the ranking officers
in the proposed separate air service will practically all be out of
touch with the aims of naval strategy. To them the enemy to be
defeated at sea lies a hundred instead of possibly a thousand miles
off shore. National defense means to them shore defense, if their
chief advocate's arguments be interpreted correctly. But will the
Navy get the service it needs from a flying personnel trained to
think in terms of the land ?
The naval officer is of course also influenced by this instinct of
self-preservation. He is working for his advantage. He sees
himself at sea lined up against an enemy enjoying unified com-
mand, himself with what fliers and machines an air control on the
beach will allow him, and the best he can see in the situation is a
sort of “Alphonse-Gaston” relation between himself and the rep-
resentatives of the air department; the worst is that bane of the


  p. 2272 (#1236)                      

2272
L'. S. Varal Institute Proceedings
| Dec.
conference method, a divided council and a wavering decision.
He is revolted at the prospect.
The naval air service, fortunately, is full of officers who see eye
to eye with the rest of the Navy, who welcome their alternating
tours of duty afloat and in the air as a means of developing them-
serves broadly in the science of fighting at sea. The writer is in-
debted to several such officers for some of the ideas contained
herein.
In the recent attacks on naval administration of the naval air
service there is a great deal of what may be described as "bunk."
This includes the good, old-time barnacle-encrusted attack on an
alleged bureaucracy contained in the press reports of one of Gen-
eral Mitchell's statements, and, above all, the proposed remedy.
The bureaus of the Navy Department have been changed and
modified from time to time and may be again. Proposed changes
have been discussed in the Naval Institute. The writer is not
here concerned with them but desires to call attention to the fact
that if a person considers that there are too many bureaus or that
they are of the wrong type, that person would naturally suggest
decreasing the number or altering the type. The remedy suggested
is to establish a new department with undoubtedly many more
bureaus, perhaps called “sections" or "subdivisions," or some
other name, to lift the curse!
Again, the policy of the Navy in bending every effort to pro-
duce planes or airships which can remain in the air long enough to
traverse the oceans has been assailed. This policy is the only one
which in any way looks to the replacement of ships by planes, and
should receive the support of air enthusiasts. But no: the leader
of the movement for a separate air force brands the Hawaiian
flight as a bit of unnecessary risk. And so on.
There is one thing about these attacks: Whether or not they
obtain support for the untried method of control of the seas by
air, they undoubtedly, through their catchy phraseology and their
sensational appeal to a public mainly interested in other things,
weaken the support the country should give its Navy. The tested,
sure methods of far-flung national defense, which cannot be jetti-
soned casually, suffer. In fact, if any agency outside of the
country desired quietly to render our communications with foreign
countries unsafe, and to hold down our growing foreign trade in
manufactured exports, one method of doing so would be to cause


  p. 2273 (#1237)                      

1925)
2273
Control of Seas by Air Department
the United States by one means or another to weaken one sure
means of commerce and communication defense and to rely on
another means, as yet untested.
The proposal to take control of flying at sea away from the
Navy has yet to be presented in terms of strategic control. It is
presented in terms of production and training, principally. Pro-
duction is the first step in logistics and as such is entitled to great
consideration. But logistics, and production with it, is called in
as a subordinate aid to strategy. It is a necessary aid; logistics
failing, strategy must be modified. But, nevertheless, it is a sub-
ordinate part of the art of war-making. To establish control of
the war-making organization on a basis of production is to intro-
duce the mechanical element so dear to the inventive mind of the
American and so fatal, if carried to excess, to unified command.
Production is a very necessary element. It is properly represented
in war by the sub-organization to which the unified command turns
and says, “Produce tools of such and such quality in such and
such time.” Production does not say "you must use only these
tools selected by us.” It suggests new tools but does not dictate.
H. Q. may make a wrong demand, as when Kitchener stocked
France with shrapnel instead of high-explosive. Production may
fall down on the job, as when the Navy said "Give us a sure and
certain method of detecting the presence of a submerged sub-
marine in fairly rough weather.” When headquarters fails, an
unerring finger can usually be placed on the error, and headquar-
ters knows it. When production fails, the error is not usually so
apparent, and may be due, as in the above instance, to failure of
the scientific laboratories of the country to overcome natural ob-
stacles. Responsibility is much more clear-cut in the former case
than in the latter. Place production in the saddle and it carries
with it into the high places a weakened responsibility, a dulled
spur. Most of the objection to the present bureau system that has
been voiced is based on the belief that a mechanical subdivision
carried out too thoroughly tends to deify material to the detriment
of strategical (and tactical) requirements. The resonant shout
of “Bureaucracy! Bureaucracy!" is a most unusual reversal of
these objections. Not enough control by material—down with
strategy!
One great objection to the separation of the Navy and its air
service is the rather general apprehension that the Navy may de-


  p. 2274 (#1238)                      

2274 U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
(Dec.
mand a type of aeroplane with certain qualities deemed necessary
for use far at sea, and that the air department may reply, “Very
well, but not just now. All our funds are obligated for construc-
tion for boundary defense, which is our primary object. Bye and
bye, maybe, we will comply.” And that the Navy may find itself
charged with a certain duty without the means of performing that
duty, and will have to return unsuccessful with the alibi that its
requests for material were not granted. Nobody wants an alibi.
We now hear of the terrible risks to which the Navy subjects its
Aiers. Certainly there are risks—much greater than the additional
50 per cent indicated by the pay tables. Pioneering has always
been a risky business. But there are other risks, less spectacular,
being taken in the Navy. Here are some examples of cause and
possible effect which should surely stand or fall together :
CAUSE
EFFECT
The Shenandoah is destroyed Establish a separate Air Department
The F-4 sinks off Honolulu Establish a separate Submarine De-
partment
A gun explodes on the Mississippi Establish a separate Gun Depart-
ment
and so on ad infinitum. Risk is a burden of the naval profession,
always has been, and always will be; and as with the doctor, taking
chances in his germ-stocked laboratory, so with the naval officer in
his experimental work.
Training, like production, is usually carried on by an organization
subordinate to the head which will have the direction of the branch
of war-making concerned, in order that proper indoctrination pre-
vail.
The question of copying a foreign government in taking naval
aviation away from the admiralty can hardly be brought up as a
precedent. It is an experiment, as yet untried in war. Already
there are rumors of too crowded aeroplane carriers due to each
service carrying what may be called overhead personnel with it.
And a series of compromises seems to be going into effect tending
to place control of naval flying back in the hands of the navy. Of
the unified-command side of the experiment the writer has heard
nothing, and an authoritative pronouncement will probably be
heard only after a war test of the present arrangement.
Movement, investigation, controversy, all of these, prevent stag-
nation and are therefore healthy signs of activity. The Navy has


  p. 2275 (#1239)                      

1925] Control of Seas by Air Department 2275
so far in this matter welcomed investigation. The naval attitude
in the present controversy, as the writer understands it, is that it
is not concerned with whatever disposition outside the Navy the
powers-that-be desire to make of aerial affairs, any more than it
was with the single rank vs. double rank cavalry controversy which
raged some years ago in the columns of the service papers. How-
ever, with changes inside the Navy it is deeply concerned, espe-
cially with any change which deprives the Navy of full control
over all the weapons it requires in carrying out its appointed tasks.
May he paraphrase a well-known slogan? “When better im-
plements of war are used, the Navy will be found using them.”
As in the past, so, let us hope, in the future.


  p. 2276 (#1240)                      

DIRECT READING MANEUVERING DIAGRAMS
By COMMANDER RUSSELL WILLSON, U. S. Navy
IT IS probably true that the Mooring and Maneuvering Dia-
| gram in the hands of an expert, is the best all-round means of
solving the various problems of course and speed involved in
certain types of maneuvers. In close order formations and in an-
choring where allowance must be made for variations of speed,
tactical qualities of a ship, or scope of chain, there is no substitute
for the Maneuvering Board.
It is desirable that all line officers be adept in the use of the
Maneuvering Board. Unfortunately they are not. It is doubtful
if one officer in five, without some preliminary study, can give a
prompt and accurate solution of a mooring board problem. About
the only officers on familiar terms with the Mooring Board are
those with peculiar slants of mind who like to play with it, navi-
gators and ex-navigators, and officers taking their examinations.
The course and speed triangles are peculiarly elusive to those who
have not learned to know them well.
Then too, the importance of familiarity with mooring board
problems is increasing. Some years ago maneuvers involving
change of bearing, of distance, or of both, were generally required
only of ships in relatively close formations—ships which at least
were within sight of the guide. In fleet dispositions of today out-
lying vessels may be called upon to change bearing or distance, or
both, when many miles from the guide, and in changes of fleet
course different mooring board problems may present themselves
to each of a hundred ships of the screens. Any scheme that tends
to simplify these problems, or to direct attention to the importance
of the Mooring Board-particularly in fleet maneuvers, may well
be of interest.
It was with this end in view that there were evolved the cellu-
loid course angle cards now used to some extent in the fleet and
at the War College. They have been described in the Naval Insti-
tute. It is sufficient for the purpose of this article to say that these


  p. 2277 (#1241)                      

1925] Direct Reading Maneuvering Diagrams 2277
cards are used with the mooring board diagram, the center of the
card being placed at the plotted “present position,” an arm pointed
at the "new position," and the various combinations of course and
speed to reach the new position read off directly from a scale.
They are simple—relatively fool-proof, and do away with the
troublesome “similar triangles.” They require no parallel rulers.
But they do require the mooring board diagram and a clear place
to lay it, not always convenient on a destroyer or a submarine
COURSE
OF GUIDE
-
-
DIAGRAM NO.1
Partly from curiosity and partly from a desire to make these
problems simpler for smaller ships or for inexperienced officers,
the writer for some time has been trying to eliminate the mooring
boad, pencil and rulers from these problems and construct a small
diagram or table which may be printed in a signal or other appro-
priate book or pasted up in a convenient position on the bridge.
The results of this work is given in this article.
In the first place it is well to state the problem in its simplest
terms. Referring to diagram No. 1, a ship at Pi wants to pro-
ceed to P2. What are the various combinations of course and
speed—relative to those of the guide—which will put her there?


  p. 2278 (#1242)                      

2278
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings [Dec.
· On the mooring board the direction of line Pi-Pº is transferred
to QRS, with GQ representing to scale the speed of the guide.
Then GR, GS, etc., represent speeds of the maneuvering ship and
the angles between these lines and the course of the guide GQ, are
the corresponding changes of course for the maneuvering ships.
In other words, these are two of the many combinations of course
and speed which, if taken by that ship, will cause its plotted posi-
tion to move along the line Pi-P2. This is all there is to the
problem.
This brief explanation suggests that there are three inter-related
variables here. (1) the direction of the position line P1-P2 rela-
tive to the guide's course, (2) the change of course, and (3) the
ratio of the lines representing speed of guide (GQ) to speed of
ship, GR, GS, etc. It has been found that the relation of these
three variables can be reduced to a simple diagram (See Diagram
No. 2), in which the figures at the top represent inclination of
position line to course of guide, those at the left side the change
of course, and the curves the speed ratio—ship's speed to speed
of the guide. If we know the inclination of the position line we
can enter the top of the table, drop down to a speed ratio line and
moving horizontally to the left pick out the corresponding change
of course.
Having this diagram the next problem is to develop a ready
means of finding the inclination of the position line. Of course
we can plot our positions and measure this inclination but we want
to avoid plotting anything.
In these problems the present and new positions are generally
given us by bearing and distance from the guide. In some cases
the bearing of the new position may be given as representing an
increase or decrease in bearing. For our purposes we must use
only relative bearings.
Now looking at Diagram No. I again we see that the inclination
of Pi-P2 to the course of the guide equals angle P2-P1-B, which
in turn equals angle BPC (the present bearing) plus angle CP1p?
(inclination of position line to present bearing). In other words
if we can find a ready means of obtaining angle CP1pwe have
merely to add it to the present bearing to get the desired inclina-
tion of the position line to the course of the guide. But we have
found that our Diagram No. 2 is a graphic means of solving tri-
angles. Comparing triangles P1P²G and QGS we find that angle


  p. 2279 (#1243)                      

1925)
2279
Direct Reading Maneuvering Diagrams
PAGP² (the change of bearing) corresponds to the angle QGS
(the change of course), that the ratio of PPG to PiG (distance
ratio) corresponds to the ratio of SG to QG (speed ratio) and
that the angle CPip? (inclination of position line to present bear-
ing) corresponds to angle DQS (inclination of line QS to course
of guide).
Using Diagram No. 2 we may, then, enter the left column with
the change of bearing, move to the right to intersect the proper
distance ratio curve and thence up to the top of the diagram where
we find the corresponding value of angle CP1P2.
70
0 160'50 140 130 120 "o 100 90 80 0 60 50 40 30 20 10 o
TINNT
171TXT
27
DIAGRAM
NO.2
170
y
1801
We have therefore the rule that the inclination of the position
line to the course of the guide is the present relative bearing plus
or minus a certain angle according as the change of bearing is
toward or away from the guide. Given the change of bearing and
distance ratio this “certain angle" is obtainable from Diagram
No. 2.
Having obtained, as above described, the inclination of the posi-
tion line to the course of the guide we can obtain by again using
Diagram No. 2, the various course and speed combinations which
will take the maneuvering ship to its new position.


  p. 2280 (#1244)                      

2280
[Dec.
U. S. Varal Institute Proceedings
It now remains to combine Diagram No. 2 and a diagram rep-
resenting the present bearings so as to make one diagram for each
of the two cases, (1) increasing bearing and (2) decreasing bear-
ing. The complete diagram for increasing bearing is given as Dia-
gram No. 3. For simplicity when reduced in size some lines are
omitted. The diagram for decreasing bearing is not given, but it
is similar to Diagram No. 3 except that the triangular diagrams at
the right are inverted and the numbering on the “present bearing”
scale is reversed.

RATIO OF NEW TO PRESENT DISTANCE
36 CHANGE
40
OF
zuwwaywZW<->W OW CW-
Z
160 COURSE
x 6c AWAY
O FROM
UZE GUIDE
we
140
TO CHANGE
awowzOw co-ZU
OF
100 COURSE
TOWARD
GUIDE
DIAGRAM No. 3
In Diagram No. 3, the upper left triangle (Diagram No. 2)
gives the inclination of the position line to the present bearing.
The diagonal parallel lines are marked for "present bearing” and
diagramatically add the present bearing and the inclination of po-
sition line as obtained from the upper triangle. These two angles
combined give the inclination of the position line to the course of
guide. The triangles at the right are each a Diagram No. 2. They


  p. 2281 (#1245)                      

1925)
2281
Direct Reading Maneuvering Diagrams
use the angle of inclination in combination with the speed ratio
curves and give as an answer the corresponding change of course
(relative to the guide) and the direction of that change—whether
away from or toward the guide.
The construction of this diagram as above explained may appear
somewhat involved (it seemed so in working it out) but the rules
for its use are simple. To use this diagram:
1) Enter upper left side of table with "increase of bearing”
and move horizontally to right until intersecting “distance ratio”
curve corresponds to ratio of new distance to present distance.
2) From this intersection drop down vertically to the diagonal
line corresponding to “present bearing."
3) From this intersection move horizontally to the right to in-
tersect speed ratio curves in a right hand triangle.
4) From any one of these intersections move down or up ver-
tically and at the edge of that triangle read the change of course
(from course of guide) and direction of turn.
The heavy dotted line on Table No. I shows the path to be fol-
lowed for the following problems :
1) 40°, 5 miles on starboard bow of guide, to take station 15
miles on that beam. (Here increase bearing is 50° and distance
ratio 3.)
Answer: Maintain speed of guide and turn out 36°; or take
twice speed of guide and turn out 80°, etc.
2) 100°, 6 miles to port of guide, to take station 170° to star-
board of guide, distant 12 miles. (Here increase of bearing is
90° and distance ratio 2.)
Answer: Take two-thirds speed of guide and turn toward guide
27° or 87°; or maintain speed of guide and turn in 108°, etc.
The above rules and examples cover the most common use of
this diagram. It should be noted, however, that this diagram gives
the relation of the five variables :
Change of bearing
Distance ratio.
Present bearing.
Speed ratio.
Change of course.
It is therefore possible to obtain any one of these items when the
other four are given or assumed. Some of these cases are perhaps
merely interesting but they explain the flexibility of the table.


  p. 2282 (#1246)                      

2282
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Suppose a destroyer 60° on starboard bow, 5,000 yards from the
guide, changes course to right 60° and takes twice the speed of the
guide. The table shows she will have increased her bearing 26°
when at double her former distance.
As previously stated, these diagrams represent the general case
in which there are five variables. In the most common maneuvers,
however, there is no change of distance-only a change of bear-
ing—or there is a change of distance (opening or closing from
the guide) but no change of bearing. In the first of these cases-
no change of distance—the diagram gives the correct solution
using the distance ratio curve (in this case a straight line) corre-
sponding to a distance ratio of one.
In the second case-opening or closing distance without change
of bearing, the diagram gives the solution by using a zero change
of bearing and the zero distance ratio line for closing distance
and the infinity distance ratio line for opening distance. This
means that the intersection in the distance triangle for closing is
at its upper left corner and for opening distance at its upper right
corner.
While it is thus seen that the two diagrams cover all cases
whether simple or complex, it is possible and probably desirable to
construct special diagrams for these two most common cases—as
such tables can be made more simple.
Taking first the case of changing bearing without changing dis-
tance:
In this case it is apparent that the direction of the position line
is at right angles to a bearing half-way between the present and
new bearing—in other words, the inclination of the position line is
the mean bearing plus or minus 90°. If we take diagram No. 2 as
the basis for our new diagram, we may mark the "inclination of
position line” side, with “mean bearings," displacing the values
90° either way to allow for the plus or minus 90°. Now in Dia-
gram No. 2 the "inclination" angles run from oº at the point of
the diagram to 180° at the right angle corner. To cover the case
of subtracting 90° from mean bearing we should therefore mark
the corresponding points on Diagram No. 4, from 90° to 270° and
to cover the case of adding 90° we should mark them from minus
90° throigh oº up to plus 90°. Though not apparent at first glance
this is what has been done at the left side of Table No. 4. The
left column covers the first case of subtracting 90°. Reading


  p. 2283 (#1247)                      

1925] Direct Reading Maneuvering Diagrams 2283
from the top down this is apparent as far as the middle of the
column—180°. After that instead of going from 180° to 270°,
it is desirable and practicable to reckon the bearing on the opposite
side—thus 170° instead of 190°, 160° instead of 200°, etc.

MEAN
BEARING
COURSE S and SPEEDS
TO CHANGE RELATIVE BEARING
WITHOUT CHANGE OF DISTANCE
100/80A
O Owuowauw wc-Z0
NOTE: MEAN BEARING IS HALF THE
SUM OF PRESENT BEARING AND NEW
BEARING WHEN BOTH ARE ON SAME SIDE
OF GUIDE, AND HALF THEIR DIFFERENCE
IF NEW BEARING IS ON THE OPPOSITE
SIDE OF THE GUIDE
CHANGE OF COURSE FROM THE
ALL BEARINGS ARE RELATIVE
AND MEASURED FROM 0° TO 180*|
TO RIGHT OR LEFT OF GUIDE.
Aspeed of Gugat
COURSE
CURVES REPRESENTS
RATIO OF YOUR
SPEED TO SPEED
OF GUIDE
ro - Zuawenw
20
O
GUIDE
14
w CR-ZU
G 10080 A
Isolyo
180
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 150 160 170
CHANGE OF COURSE FROM THE COURSE OF THE GUIDE
DIAGRAM NO.4
The second of these columns covers the case of adding 90°, the
angles in the upper half really being minus angles (angles on oppo-
site side.) It is not necessary to consider the minus sign because
it ultimately concerns only the direction, not the amount of the
change of course, and in this problem we can make the simple rule
that the turn be always made toward the new position..
It is apparent that for each “mean bearing” there are two sets
of problems depending on whether we are increasing or decreasing


  p. 2284 (#1248)                      

2284
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
(Dec.
the bearing. Thus, if we are to go from 90° to 170° the mean
bearing is 130°. We are increasing the bearing and we must use
the lower half of the diagram, whereas, if we are going from 170°
to 90° we are decreasing the bearing and we must use the upper
half.
There remains the question of how most conveniently to obtain
the mean bearing. When the two bearings are on the same side, the

180,0
170ALOR
Speedok Guide
erwowzt war-zu FO UOMO-CZUW
35
X
Ill
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 110 120 130 140 150 160 170
CHANGE OF COURSE (FROM COURSE OF THE GUIDE
AWAY FROM GUIDE IF OPENING TOWARD GUIDE IF CLOSING
DIAGRAM NO.5
mean is, of course, half their sum. When they are on opposite
sides we could reckon both from the same side say 90° and 220°
and take half the sum, but as the new bearing will be given as left
140° rather than right 220°, it is more convenient to take half the
difference between the two bearings each reckoned on its own side.
This really gives the reciprocal of the mean bearing, but for our
purposes both are the same.


  p. 2285 (#1249)                      

1925]
- 2285
Direct Reading Maneuvering Diagrams
The rules for using Diagram No. 4 are very simple. It is merely
necessary to enter the left side at the appropriate point, move to
right to intersect a speed ratio curve and then vertically up or
down to obtain the change of course corresponding to that speed
ratio.
In the case of opening or closing distance without change of
bearing we again use the fact concerning Diagram No. 2, that if
we have the inclination of the position line to the course of the
guide, we can obtain the proper combination of course and speed
from a simple triangular diagram. Now in the case of opening
distance the position line runs in the direction which the ship bears
from the guide. In closing distance it runs in the opposite direc-
tion. It is necessary therefore only to make a No. 2 diagram in
the form given as No. 5. Enter this diagram with the present
bearing, using the right side when opening and the left side (where
the scale is reversed), when closing, move horizontally to intersect
a speed ratio curve and dropping down vertically, read off the
change of course corresponding to that speed.
This is the simplest of all these diagrams and possibly the most
useful as it can be used not only in maneuvers but in station keep-
ing, and in opening or closing the range while maintaining the
bearing
As stated in the beginning of this article it is not believed that
these diagrams can or should replace the mooring board, which
must be the basis of all accurate maneuvering. On the other hand
they may prove simpler for some officers. They do give a picture
of the relation of the various elements entering in a maneuver
which the mooring board diagram does not give and it may be
worth while to have them printed in some of the tactical books or
posted on the bridge.


  p. 2286 (#1250)                      

A DEVICE FOR SOLVING FOR TRUE WIND
By LIEUTENANT F. H. GILMER, U. S. Navy
IN VIEW of the fact that several of the new fire control in-
stallations call for the use of true wind instead of apparent
wind, it is expedient to have some method of quickly and
accurately determining this factor. The following device, designed
and originally used by Lieutenant O. Nimitz, serves the purpose
and has the additional advantage of being easily made.
Construction: On a thin piece of board about twelve inches long
and six inches wide paste a plain piece of white paper. Draw the
longitudinal center line and from a predetermined center lay off-
along this line-graduations to represent ship's speed in knots.
Any convenient scale may be used. Construct two dials graduated
in degrees. One is to be used as “True Ship’s Course Dial”; the
other as “True Wind Dial.” The compass roses, cut from old
charts, will serve the purpose very well, provided they are pasted
on light metal or cardboard in order to give them the requisite
strength. The Apparent Wind Arm and the True Wind Arm are
made of light brass or some other similar metal. It is essential
that the graduated side of these arms run through their pivot cen-
ters and that the graduations be laid off along this side from the
pivot center. The scale used must be identical with that previously
used for ship's speed. An excellent method of satisfactorily grad-
uating these arms is to cover the metal arm with a strip of
adhesive tape and to paste a piece of paper on the tape. The grad-
uations can then be made with India ink. Pivot the True Ship’s
Course Dial and the Apparent Wind Arm, the one above the other,
and in such a manner that each may be turned independently of
the other, about the previously determined center from which the
own ship's speed graduations were laid off. Pivot the True Wind
Dial and the True Wind Arm about a common movable center in
such a manner that each may be turned independently of the other.
If the ship's speed in knots is shown by mere line graduations, a
thumb tack may be used as a common center for these two. If


  p. 2287 (#1251)                      

SO
a
20
10
0
TRUE WIND DIAL
Oz! 011 001
o 330 340 350
iso 140 150 16
EE oze of
OLI 091 OS!
WYV ONIM 3181
5 ZTO 280 280 3o
20
230 240 250 26
Bo 200 210
210 220 230 240
=
15
SHIPS SPEED, KNOTS
10
APPARENT WIND ARM
70 80
ch
VIO
KC 20 so số
3500 10
120 130 i
ho 320 330 340 35
TRUE WIND SOLVER
140 150 160 iz
DESIGNED BY Lt. 0.Nimitz
DAAWN BY LT, F.H. GILMER
Taco 270 280 290 som
TRUE SHIP'S COURSE DIAL
SO 170 180 190
220 230 240 250
o 190 200 210 a


  p. 2288 (#1252)                      

2288
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
small holes are drilled for these graduations, it is possible to use a
peg of the proper size for a center pivot.
The scale to be used, the size of the dials and the length of the
arms can be made to suit the existing conditions. Under ordinary
circumstances it will probably be sufficient to allow for a ship's
speed of not more than 40 knots and for a wind of not more than
50 knots.
Operation.—Turn True Ship’s Course Dial until it gives the
ship's true course when read against the inscribed longitudinal
center line. Swing the Apparent Wind Arm around until its
graduated side gives the direction of the apparent wind when read
against the True Ship's Course Dial. Place the common center
of the True Wind Dial and the True Wind Arm over the grad-
uation representing the ship's speed. Turn the True Wind Dial
until its reading against the longitudinal center line is identical
with the reading of the True Ship’s Course Dial. Swing the True
Wind Arm around until its graduated side intersects the Apparent
Wind Arm at the graduation representing the force of the appar-
ent wind. Then the True Wind Arm read against the Apparent
Wind Arm will give the force of the true wind and read against
the True Wind Dial will give the direction of the true wind. In
the illustration the following factors are used :
Ship’s course 60°,
Ship's speed 25 knots,
Apparent wind direction 90°,
Apparent wind force 20 knots,
which give:
True wind direction 190° (-),
True wind force 127/2 knots.
The construction of this device can be somewhat simplified by
drawing the ship's course dial on the paper and graduating it for
relative bearing. The True Wind Dial and the True Wind Arm
can then be fastened together so as to move as a single piece. In
this case the zero graduation of the dial should coincide with the
intersection of the graduated side of the True Wind Arm and the
circumference of the True Wind Dial. When so constructed the
relative bearing of the true wind is read off of the True Wind
Dial against the longitudinal center line.


  p. 2289 (#1253)                      

THE DESTROYER ENGINEER IN BATTLE
By LIEUTENANT GEORGE R. FAIRLAMB, JR., U. S. Navy
D VERYONE will agree that the training of a destroyer's en-
gineer force in practical engineering battle casualties is essen-
tial. More than this, it is required by the spirit of our
regulations if not by the letter. But is it given the attention, the
thought, the actual time which it merits? Is it not instead rather
looked upon as a necessary evil to be avoided as conveniently as
possible? In many instances does it not exist in the minds of
engineer officers only hazily in the limbo of things which one is
always going to do sometime? Do commanding officers, having
their attention fully occupied with gunnery, torpedoes, and the
tactics of search, scouting, and destroyer employment, in addition
to normal routine, often think of it unless their engineers bring
it to their attention? Does not the employment schedule always
interfere with such practical training underway?
On consideration, why should especial emphasis be placed upon
drill in actually handling engineering battle casualties? Because,
first, with most of our destroyer installations, a well-drilled en-
gineer crew can keep its ship in line of battle in spite of bad casual-
ties, or at the worst can prevent her from drifting helplessly into
her mates or into the enemy gunfire-barring complete wreckage
to all boilers or to all turbines; and second, because the engineer
officer being usually the third in command and experience will
doubtlessly find that his battle station will eventually, if not in
the beginning of battle, be other than below.
That it is entirely practicable to have a reliable destroyer en-
gineer crew handle its plant without the immediate supervision of
its chief is proved daily at sea in the absence of commissioned or
warrant engineer watch officers below. If war were declared to-
morrow and it became necessary to man our entire destroyer force,
the experienced officer personnel would be scant, and the engineer
officer would probably find himself aloft helping to fight the ship
in battle. If the engineer personnel of all of our destroyers in


  p. 2290 (#1254)                      

2290
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
active commission are perfectly indoctrinated and competent in the
actual handling of battle casualties the destroyer arm has taken a
long step toward attainment of true battle efficiency.
Of the various accounts and stories of the Battle of Jutland, one
which appeals greatly to the imagination is that describing the
"burning torches and funeral pyres drifting past in the night."
The passage in quotation marks is an inexact quotation from a
German account of what the Germans did to British destroyers
that fouled their battle line during the night retreat-probably
worth less than most accounts, but still very expressive of what it
means to a destroyer to have shells come tearing through fire-
rooms, oil tanks, or engine rooms. Also there are records of that
battle which show that badly plugged destroyers limped off to
safety. We have the case of our own Shaw which steamed, stern-
to, a long way to port after a nasty collision.
The destroyer engineer, even though he have a sluggish imagina-
tion, if he sit in the quiet of his stateroom at night and ponder
these things a bit will unquestionably wonder what he should do
if a shell burst his starboard main steam line in the forward fire-
room. Well, what should he do? And suppose, to make matters
worse, a certain section of his engine-room auxiliary steam line
had gone also. What do? The more he sits and thinks of the
harrowing casualties that could happen to cause not only death to
his engineers but reduction in speed, or complete and entire break-
down and helplessness, the more he realizes the necessity for a
smart "black-gang" who know, every man jack of them, from
chief petty officer to fireman third class, the answer to every cas-
ualty that can be met. He begins to write down every casualty to
boilers, steam and water lines that he can think of. Opposite he
puts down the answer, for has he not made 28 plus knots on two
kettles, and once because the port Kingsbury thrust threatened
to strip his h.p. engine, didn't he make 20 knots on the starboard
screw with ennui and precision and keep the ship in formation?
But what is the answer when both main steam lines are gone yet
there still remain some boilers with steam and the necessary auxil-
iaries? He is not sure. So he goes down to the engine room and
right enough he finds that by closing this and opening that he can
make all the speed that the auxiliary steam line will permit. How
much speed would that be? He doesn't know, and he cannot find
out except by actual trial.


  p. 2291 (#1255)                      

1925]
The Destroyer Engineer in Battle
2291
It is an interesting subject. He finds that there are certain
hook-ups, the significance of which he had never really grasped;
that there are certain lines whose value in battle he had never fully
realized; that there is the subject of communication between fire-
rooms, between engine rooms; between engine rooms, firerooms,
and bridge. What probably happens when a shell blows the hell
out of the forward fireroom? How are the after fireroom and
the engine rooms to know exactly? All very interesting, what?
The net result of such pondering should be a list of every con-
ceivable battle casualty that could happen with the appropriate
remedies such as they are. Means of communication are of great-
est importance—and where communication probably will break
down. The symptoms such as steam pressure falling, and so forth,
should be studied. In doing all of this it is well not to be cursed
with a too vivid imagination for there are, alas, so very many
casualties which cannot be answered at all.
With his battle casualty scheme thoroughly worked out, the en-
gineer then takes his black-gang into his confidence and begins to
find out how extraordinarily ignorant of the fireroom leads the
engine room people are, and how very little the fireroom people
know about the engine room. They know enough for every day
work, to be sure, but the nicest points of the game they've missed,
for each gang is wrapped up in itself primarily. When all the
casualties have been discussed—and it is remarkable the interest
that will be awakened—drills are held at anchor. Then the interest
gradually subsides. Make-believe does very well for a time, but in
the long run no more benefit accrues from make-believe drill in
engineering casualties than from make-believe target practice.
So the engineer goes to the skipper and if the skipper be wise
something like this will happen. Whenever on independent duty
and time permits, engineering casualties are held while underway.
The engineer force are all on their battle stations. All clocks and
watches are checked and set together. The engineer officer goes
below and springs his casualties. Where possible, without any
spoken word, a valve is closed and the “symptoms” begin to speak
for themselves. Action becomes imperative. Boilers are cut in
and out. Every hook-up is actually used. Time studies of casual-
ties and communications are as beneficial here as in gunnery, and
the time of the casualty, time of notification to bridge, and the
time of "ready to go ahead" are taken. It is discovered that the


  p. 2292 (#1256)                      

2292
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ship can make 12 knots, or whatever it may be, by taking steam
only through the auxiliary steam line to the port engine and so
forth. It is all very interesting and everybody has had a good
time, even the quartermaster who reports gravely to the officer-
of-the-deck that the after fireroom is on fire and has to be aban-
doned, all except the engineer officer, who when it is over begins
to wonder what effect his little game will have on "form H" and
the engineering competition.
Aye there's the rub. It costs him much laborious and tedious
work to figure out his conditions and his speeds, and when it is
over he has averaged much too little speed for the gallons of oil
burned. Though he has contributed in no mean way to training
his department for battle efficiency, his ship, if such exercises are
indulged in too frequently, will have a lower multiple than her
sisters, other factors being equal.
The world is divided into two types of people. There's "them
that do and them that don't.” Ships are the same way. But the
above scheme as outlined is practicable. It was carried out under
a recent squadron commander on the Asiatic station. It should be
required by all squadron commanders not only of destroyers, but
of other classes of unarmored vessels. It is required of command-
ing officers by the spirit of our regulations, yet how often is it
honestly tackled in the way it should be? Having been away from
the service afloat for the past two years the writer can only say
that it was not being done in his time.
Would it not be feasible to embody in the rules for engineering
performances, certain allowances for engineering battle casualty
drills and then, to clinch the matter, require all vessels upon com-
pletion of their annual full power trials to go through all con-
ceivable battle casualties that can actually be handled, and receive
a merit therefor? Such a scheme would tend to produce highest
caliber engine and fireroom crews. In destroyer captains at least,
it would breed greater confidence in both ordinary service and
battle conditions, and it would permit them without qualms to
assign engineer officers on the top side in battle where our per-
sonnel situation will probably in any case require them. Last but
not least, there will be fewer "burning torches and funeral pyres”
cluttering up no man's land between the battle lines.


  p. 2293 (#1257)                      

A DESTROYER DIVISION COMMANDER'S
INSPECTION
By LIEUTENANT V. H. GODFREY, U. S. Navy
VERY destroyer skipper thinks his ship is the most efficient
one in the squadron. Only one can be that, and at present,
despite many wardroom and café discussions, there is no
real system of designating that one. Of course we have the
“Battle Efficiency” trophy which combines engineering and gun-
nery—but shouldn't the name of that be changed to "Practice
Efficiency”—can it logically be claimed that battle conditions are
even simulated in any target practice or at any time in the engine
room or fire-rooms ? Preparation for battle? Maybe—but what
way have we of knowing if the organization would continue to
function under real battle conditions with the leading personnel
dropping right and left and casualties constantly occurring ? No
commanding officer wishes to see his target practice records
spoiled by insertion of arbitrary casualties, so the only relief
is another inspection, but a different one—a “simulated battle.”
There was one division commander's inspection, short and
snappy, which developed flaws in the prettiest looking battle prep-
arations—and discovered true merit in others not so ornate in
appearance. It afforded the whole division an opportunity to see
their shortcomings and incidentally kept them interested and happy
during a spell of very tiresome, monotonous duty.
Here is how it was run. To be sure it entailed a few hours'
extra work on the division commander's part, but the results were
well worth it.
The Inspection Board:
The division commander.
Two other destroyers' captains (same division).
Two other destroyers' executives.
Three other destroyers' engineers.
Two other destroyers' ordnance officers.


  p. 2294 (#1258)                      

2294
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
One other destroyers' torpedo officer.
Four other destroyers' first lieutenants and communication officers.
The above officers were notified by guard mail, confidential, of
the time to assemble on the boat to be inspected, furnished with
typewritten copies of instructions—sample below—and told to
bring stop watches.
The board assembled on the boat to be inspected, notified the
commanding officer, and repaired to chart house to start stop
watches at “zero hour.”
Procedure: A designated officer in a small boat near the ship
throws overboard a "dummy” (life preservers in an old uniform)
and calls “man overboard.” Time taken to get boat in water is
noted and a mark is assigned on smartness of crew, and so forth.
Other emergency drills are held in the same manner.
Allow commanding officer a few minutes to restore gear, then
blow "zero hour" on whistle—all hands start stop watches and
follow procedure as outlined in instruction sheet.
This inspection can be held either underway or at anchor, and is
capable of infinite variations.
Instructions for Inspection Board of DD 353:
A. Composition and stations of board:
DD 348 Commanding officer, at large; engineer, No. 2 fire-
room; ordnance officer, No. I gun.
DD 349 Executive, after control; ordnance officer, fire con-
trol; communication officer, bridge.
DD 350 Commanding officer, bridge; first lieutenant, amid-
ships ; communication officer, radio.
DD 351 Executive, bridge; engineer, engine room; first
lieutenant, ammunition supply.
DD 352 Commanding officer, bridge; engineer, No. i fire-
room; torpedo officer, torpedo tubes.
Each provided with stop watch and instruction sheet.
B. Procedure: Commanding officer (348) inform commanding
officer (353) that war is on between United States and Black.
The 353 is leading a division of destroyers acting as AA close
screen in position on engaged bow, speed (20). Enemy main
fleet 20,000 yards on starboard bow of United States fleet. Base
course oº true. Engagement about to commence.


  p. 2295 (#1259)                      

1925]
2295
A Division Commander's Inspection
C. Sound whistle when commanding officer (353) says he is
ready to go to general quarters. All observers start stop watches.
Whistle is zero time.
Note: Officer in “By Whom” column takes notes of handling of
casualty on his sheet.
Time
By Whom
Casualty
04-00 Commanding Officer (350 Navigator informed “Periscope"
submarine sighted, bearing 340°
true, distance 300 yards.
Communication Officer (349) Sees if correct submarine signal
made to AAs.
Commanding Officer (352) Commanding officer handles ship to
ram.
05-00 Engineer Officer (352) Steam to smothering line, port fire-
room tanks start leaking badly be-
tween auxiliary line and valve
water tender in No. I fireroom in-
formed.
06-00 First Lieutenant (350) No. 2 gun captain, “shell hit in gal-
ley, oil on fire."
07-00 Communication Officer (349) Flag hoist given meaning "Engage
enemy destroyers bearing oº true.”
Interpretation by communication of-
ficer.
Commanding Officer (350) Commanding officer gets message
above.
08-00 Commanding Officer (350) Informs navigator that a column of
enemy destroyers is ahead, steering
160°, speed 30, distance 6,000 yards.
(Note: Commanding officer should engage, leading division in by signal.)
09-00 Ordnance Officer (348) Gun captain and first pointer of No.
I gun killed.
10-00 Ordnance Officer (349) Director gyro stopped.
10-00 Engineer (351)
Running generator burned up.
11-00 Ordnance Officer (349) Spotter killed.
11-00 Engineer (348)
Oil line burst, No. 2 fireroom, oil
fire started.
11-00 Communication Officer (350) Main antenna carried away.
12-00 First Lieutenant (351) Forward magazines on fire. Notify
man in charge ammunition party.
12-00 Torpedo Officer (352)
Tell torpedo officer and commanding
officer, battle cruiser 6,000 yards on
starboard beam, parallel course,
speed 25.


  p. 2296 (#1260)                      

2296
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
[Dec.
Time
By Whom
Casualty
13-00 Communication Officer (349) Signal meaning "Break off action
with enemy DD's and take former
position."
Commanding Officer
Observe commanding officer's man-
(352-350)
euvers.
14-00 Engineer (351)
Port condenser hit by shell, out of
commission. Leading C.M.M. killed.
14-00 Engineer (352)
Forward fireroom main feed line hit
by shell, leaking badly. Leading
W.T. killed.
14-00 Engineer (348)
All hands No. 2 fireroom killed by
oil fire.
15-00 Commanding Officer (352) Commanding officer and helmsman
killed. Wheel shot away. (Com-
manding officer and helmsman retire
to emergency cabin.)
16-00 Executive (349)
Sightsetter, trainer and gun captain,
No. 4 gun, killed.
17-00 Torpedo Officer (352) Torpedo target starboard quarter,
parallel course, speed 20.
18-00 Commanding Officer (350) Navigator and all bridge personnel
killed. (Allow navigator to send
dying message, to after control)
20-00 Communication Officer (350) Radio room gets message from AA's
"Course-180º-execute."
21-00 Torpedo Officer (352) All torpedo men killed.
Ordnance Officer (348) All No. I gun's crew killed.
First Lieutenant (350) All No. 2 and No. 3 guns' crews
killed.
First Lieutenant (351) All ammunition party killed.
23-00 Executive (349) ·
All No. 4 gun's crew and after con-
trol killed.
24-00 Engineer (352)
All fires out, steam gone in No. 1
fireroom.
Engineer (351)
All steam gone in engine rooms.
Notify chief Engineer, he is com-
manding officer.
25-00 Engineer (351)
Notify chief engineer he must stand
or Commanding Officer (350) by to repel boarders. Enemy de-
stroyers approaching abeam. (Note:
anti-aircraft gun still in commis-
sion.)
27-00 Engineer (351)
Notify chief engineer to prepare
or Commanding Officer (350) ship to be taken in tow. (Destroyer
was friendly.)
(Note: An officer killed should be allowed to notify his relief.)


  p. 2297 (#1261)                      

1925] A Division Commander's Inspection
2297
This inspection is not meant to stir up hard feelings or give
anyone a chance to ridicule anyone else. The whole idea back of
it is to encourage initiative of subordinates and to broaden the
vision of everyone concerned by bringing before him the cold
fact that his professional interest should not be limited to the
scope of his particular assigned duty, but should extend to the
general working of the whole ship. It is intended to show that
navy men should be not only masters of one trade but jacks of all
trades as well; and so to promote real battle efficiency.


  p. 2298 (#1262)                      

THE WAR STAFF IDEA AFLOAT
By LIEUTENANT H. J. Wright, U. S. Navy
DROBABLY the most striking and significant lesson of the
World War is the realization that without the coordination
of all the resources of a belligerent, victory is impossible.
War today finds “nations in arms”—the idea of the professional
Army and Navy carrying on the fight while the civilian conducts
"business as usual" is no more, and the warfare of today and the
future envisages every last resource of a nation whether it be mili-
tary, commercial, or scientific, employed to its elastic limit in the
effort to win. Naturally the complications arising from many
varied and at times conflicting interests demand cooperation and
coordination to the greatest extent.
As the scope of civilian participation in war has increased, so
have the factors in the actual military and naval prosecution of
wartime activities become amplified. The necessity for expert
coordination of the multiplied weapons now available to the com-
mander is increased. The control and direction of all the elements
comprised in a force is the function of command and it is ap-
parent that the high command is faced, in the exercise of its func-
tion, with increasingly grave responsibility.
In the past, when war was a matter of small armies, small fleets,
and limited theaters of action, the commander was able personally
to exercise his command function aided by an administrative, tech-
nical, and supply staff, which busied itself with such questions as
the service of supply and administrative details incident to the
operations in hand. The commander was able to devote his time
and energy to the handling of his forces on the tactical field.
Then, too, he could have a more or less complete picture of the
situation, estimating the enemy's forces, their strength and dis-
position, and make his own plans and decisions.
War today presents a different problem. The increased size
of the fighting forces, the great extent of the front, the multitude
of new weapons; all these make demands on the commander


  p. 2299 (#1263)                      

1925]
2299
The War Staff Idea Afloat
which without adequate assistance, he could not meet. A com-
mander today would indeed be a superman could he but keep track
of his own forces and prepare orders for them, to say nothing
of enemy effort. Modern conditions of warfare have added such
a multiplicity of detail to the function of high command that it is
impossible for one individual personally to attend to the onerous
details required by his command responsibility and at the same
time to pay attention to the broader phases of it.
This condition has made apparent the necessity for a general
staff, in addition to the administrative, technical, and supply staff.
The Army found, in its participation in the World War, that its
organization was inadequate and that a general staff, to render
strategical and tactical assistance to the commander, was an abso-
lute necessity. To the credit of the Army, it evolved a staff idea,
based particularly on the German general staff system, and pro-
ceeded to train and employ general officers on staff duty. The mis-
sion of the general staff is to assist the commander in the exercise
of his command function. It is composed of a chief of staff and
four assistants and this staff idea is carried out, in form and
function, in all commands down to the division.
The chief of staff is the assistant, adviser, and representative
of the commander and is the coordinator of the whole command;
he transmits the commander's will to the staff and troops. The
four assistant chiefs of staff are assigned to the four distinct
functions of command-personnel, intelligence, operations and
training, and supply. Without going into a detailed analysis of the
army general staff system, it may be said that the general staff
forms a strategical and tactical service itself, especially trained
to furnish detailed assistance in its own specialty of troop leader-
ship, not to command the technical and administrative branches.
In this sense the staff officer is trained in the leadership of troops
of the combined arms, to coordinate the branches, not to perform
their functions.
Because the general staff solves the problems of war, coordi-
nates the various arms, and is, in effect, a part of the commander's
mind, its members must be trained for tactical command, and in
order properly to function, each member should be able to assume
any one of the four assignments on the staff.
In order to make clear the point that the general staff does not
perform the functions of the various bureaus, but is a separate


  p. 2300 (#1264)                      

2300
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
and distinct function, let us take for example the part G-4 (assist-
ant chief of staff for supply) plays in the planning of an operation.
The staff is informed as to the nature of the mission by the com-
mander and the situation estimated by the members of the staff.
G-4 collaborates with G-1, G-2, and G-3 in solving the problem
and from his training as a general officer is able to supply definite
information as to the logistic requirements of the contemplated
operations. Without his knowledge of, and experience in, similar
operations, his estimate of the logistic requirements for the pres-
ent problem would be inadequate. Once the decision is arrived at,
the quartermaster department receives definite and accurate esti-
mates of the needs of the forces involved and makes provisions
to meet them.
The outstanding features to be observed about the general staff
are: that its duties are those which the commander formerly per-
formed himself; that its duties are not at all those already assigned
to other staff agencies; that the general staff relieves the com-
mander of the burdensome details incident to the coordination of
the activities of the various elements of the command in further-
ance of his strategical and tactical plans; and that the general
staff is not within the chain of command.
Naval operations of the present era have gone through the
same amplification that army development has. World-wide sea-
borne commerce, outlying possessions, strategic waterways such
as the Panama Canal, increased tactical possibilities due to the
development of the air arm, and new and untried weapons: all
these have broadened the scope and complexity of naval effort
in war, so that the high naval command is faced with exactly the
same sort of problem as is that of the Army. The Army has met
the problem by the introduction and development of the general
staff system. The Navy, the writer believes, is faced with a simi-
lar situation and the answer is yet to be found.
Ashore, there exists, in a measure, an analogue to the general
staff idea. The office of the chief of naval operations is organ-
ized into departments whose heads are officers of flag rank, capa-
ble because of their experience and training in solving problems
of war. They are lobes of the brain, so to speak, of the chief of
operations. Certain high standards of service plus staff training
should be demanded in these advisers to the chief of operations
and undoubtedly are.


  p. 2301 (#1265)                      

1925)
2301
The War Staff Idea Afloat
But the staff afloat presents no such effective organization nor
is there, to the writer's knowledge, any system in operation in the
Navy which insures the assignment to the commands afloat, of men
trained in the exercise of high command and capable, because of
this training, to fill the billet of general staff officers. There exists
undoubtedly, in the service, some repugnance to the idea of a
general staff, probably because of its German origin. But call it
by any name, its effectiveness remains unimpaired and the neces-
sity for some such war staff is apparent.
In what direction this idea should be developed and what ten-
dencies should be stressed in the formation of a general staff
scheme in the Navy, the writer is not prepared to say. However,
it seems that inasmuch as the officers assigned to the general staff
of a commander of a fleet must possess the qualifications and
training for high command in order to help solve the problems
faced by the commander, they should be rear admirals in rank
and should have had the advantages of special training along these
lines in addition to actual seagoing experience as division com-
manders. This relation between the commander and his staff, i.e.,
similarity in training and experience, should be maintained down
through the chain of flag commands.
In smaller commands the war staff idea can be carried out by
officers of the technical staff in addition to other duties. However,
it should be borne in mind that the detail of a specialist to the staff
does not qualify him to discharge the duties of a general staff
officer. His tactical training, his knowledge of command func-
tions, experience, and professional qualifications, not his specialist
accomplishments, are the considerations which should determine
his fitness for general staff duty.
For the sake of discussion let us try to construct an organization
scheme for a general naval staff, with particular attention to its
application afloat, in view of the fact that any war service the
fleet may be called upon to perform will probably be distant serv-
ice with all its communication difficulties and consequent increased
responsibilities of the commander in the actual theater of oper-
ations.
The necessary characteristics of such a scheme are its adapta-
bility to the various higher commands, its practicability, and utility.
Any departure from present practice which will involve radical
changes in method, greatly increased personnel, and which is not
useful in effect must necessarily be discarded.


  p. 2302 (#1266)                      

2302
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
[Dec.
The naval commander's problems are closely associated with
the “Estimate of the Situation"; that is, if he is properly trained
he attacks every problem with the logical treatment indicated in
the standard form of the “Estimate.” If he correctly estimates
a given situation, his decisions are inevitably sound, and sound
decisions carried out bring victory. Hence, his two objectives are
sound decisions and the correct execution of them.
The integral steps leading to the decision are (a) a mission,
which is either derived or contained in orders from the higher
command. This is the commander's task; (b) an investigation
into the enemy's forces, their strength, disposition, and probable
intentions; (c) a complete knowledge of our own forces, their
strength, disposition, and a survey of the courses of action open
to us to carry out our mission, as affected by probable enemy
effort.
The correct execution of the decisions of the commander de-
pends on the clarity with which they are conveyed to the subordi-
nates, in orders, assuming, of course, that the necessary zeal,
loyalty, and professional fitness pervade the subordinate com-
mands.
As has been pointed out previously, the extent and complexity of
modern warfare is such as to make it almost impossible for a
commander to keep track of what is going on over the extent of
a modern battlefield. Therefore it becomes the logical duty of
his staff to supply the necessary details, and a natural division of
staff work is thereby suggested, as a basic idea for the organiza-
tion of a strategical and tactical staff system, which will be prac-
tical in application, easily adapted to the various grades of com-
mand and which will serve a useful function, i.e., the assisting of
the commander in the exercise of command.
Let us, then, organize a strategical and tactical staff along lines
suggested by the fundamental mission of such a staff, bearing in
mind the necessity of establishing a system which will be appli-
cable to all commands of flag rank.
Naturally we first have a chief of staff, whose function it is to
be the principal assistant, chief adviser, and representative of the
commander. He is the coordinating agent who insures the proper
functioning of the whole machine and is the medium for the
transmission of the decisions of the commander to the staff and
subordinate commands. The function of his assistants is to aid


  p. 2303 (#1267)                      

1925]
The War Staff Idea Afloat
2303
in the solution of the problem facing the commander, and a logical
division of this work might be to assign one to “enemy forces,”
one to "own forces," and a third to logistics.
Number one, in handling “enemy forces,” naturally performs
the related duty of intelligence officer and works in close collabora-
tion with number two, who, in handling "own forces," must of
necessity be cognizant of enemy strength and activity in determin-
ing the chances of success in the various courses of action open to
us. Number three, from his training and experience in command,
would supply the necessary data as to the logistic requirements
of the projected operations.
It will be seen that these tasks are not individual ones; they are
performed in collaboration and are coordinate in nature. In order
to forestall the natural inclination to enhance one's own task at
the expense of the other fellow's, these three tasks assigned to our
assistant chiefs of staff should be held in rotation by them. This
will also emphasize the necessity for cooperation among the staff
members.
For purposes of identification we might assign designating let-
ters to these three functions in accordance with the fleet or com-
mand to which the staff is attached. Thus for the United States
Fleet we designate the strategical and tactical staff as F-1, F-2,
F-3; that of the battle fleet as BF-1, BF-2, BF-3; that of the
scouting fleet as SF-I, SF-2, SF-3, and so forth. The function
of each remains constant.
From the solution submitted by these three officers, the com-
mander, advised by his chief of staff, makes the decision. This
solution will be adequate and worth the commander's attention
only if the members of the staff are adequately trained in com-
mand themselves and have the necessary experience to see the
problem in its larger aspects. This must be the fundamental
characteristic of the general staff officer.
Not every officer is equipped by nature to fill this sort of staff
assignment. Just as we recognize the need for ordnance and en-
gineering specialists, so should the necessity for trained strategical
and tactical specialists be admitted. We train our ordnance ex-
perts, our engineers, our aviators. By the same token our staff
officers should be trained. The Naval War College is striving
toward this end, it is true, but the War College does not assign
officers to the fleet, nor does it differentiate in its own sphere


  p. 2304 (#1268)                      

2304
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
between those who are mentally equipped for staff duty and those
who are not. Every officer cannot be so equipped; it is not "the
nature of the beast.” The writer is firm in the belief that medi-
ocrity is not our standard. We eliminate a certain percentage of
the applicants for aviation and submarine duty as unfit for this
particular sort of work and find places for them elsewhere. But
we employ no selective method in training our strategists and tac-
ticians, probably because we have not as yet a well developed
concept of the function of a war staff. One thing is certain, how-
ever; no matter what form our staff organization takes, training in
command, strategy, and tactics should be a sine qua non to staff
assignment. That training is given definite form and direction at
the Naval War College, and the completion of the course there
should be the preliminary without exception, to higher command
or staff duty.
The scheme outlined above for the organization of a strategical
and tactical staff to assist the high command is of course merely
a "feeler.” The writer realizes that it is open to many criticisms,
and that there are probably many better basic ideas upon which to
build a war staff scheme, but if it serves no other purpose than
that of a target for broadsides of criticisms, its mission will have
been achieved, for criticism implies attention and attention to
this vital subject will develop proper ideas.
The scheme suggested would be practical in that no great ad-
ditional personnel is required; no change in methods of attacking
problems is advocated. It is adaptable to all commands of flag
rank; it is consistent with the employment of officers now assigned
as staff technical assistants, provided they have had war staff
training; it is a uniform method of supplying adequate assistance
to all commands and therefore provides, in the lower commands,
a selective source of supply for war staff assistants in the higher
commands, and, what is most vital, it provides a group of men
fitted by training and experience to take up the burden of actual
command.
The problem of supplying trained assistants, experienced in
the art of war, to our commanders, must be be met eventually.
The Army found the answer in the crucible of war and had the
opportunity of applying it because our allies were fighting the
battle and we had time to install the system. We may never again
be so fortunate. The Navy was not charged with the defeat of


  p. 2305 (#1269)                      

1925)
2305
The War Staff Idea Afloat
an enemy fleet in the World War; nor with the patrol of the seven
seas and the guarding of our own shores and distant possessions.
The writer naturally believes that if these problems had arisen,
they would have been solved but that in the solution of them we
inevitably would have been forced to effect an efficient war staff
organization as were our brothers in arms, the Army. The hulks
of warships still visible at Cape Helles, the waste of life at Anzac
and on the hills of Gallipoli, and the whole failure of the cam-
paign to force the Dardanelles, bear eloquent witness to the lack
of efficient staff work. There is no need to go into more examples
of such a nature; it is not pleasant; but unless facts are faced in
a spirit of constructive criticism, we can logically expect like re-
sults from like causes.


  p. 2306 (#1270)                      

UNITED STATES OCCUPATION OF THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By COMMANDER C. C. BAUGHMAN, U. S. Navy
THERE have been published many and varied articles rela-
| tive to the condition prior to and after the occupation of the
Dominican Republic by the United States forces. Notwith-
standing these articles, I will endeavor to give a narrative of the
principal points and conditions leading up to the establishment of
the military government and a short account of some of the things
done by it. It is to be borne in mind that the method of establish-
ing quiet, of stabilizing conditions, and of aiding in the develop-
ment of the Dominican Republic was different from that which
had been used by the United States on previous occasions in other
places and was considered to be in the light of an experiment.
It is believed that in following this method, many obstacles, which
had been encountered by the United States in its helpful activities
· in other countries, were eliminated. This account covers, other
than some financial history of the previous few years, approxi-
mately the first two and one half years of the military govern-
ment's activity, during all but the first two months of which I was
on the staff of the Military Governor and administered the affairs
of the departments of "Public Works and Communications" and
“Agriculture and Immigration.”
In 1907 there had been created a public debt of over $30,000,000
This debt was caused principally by disturbed political conditions
with revolutions and resultant claims against the government. The
Dominican Republic was able to bring this indebtedness to
$17,000,000 by a political adjustment.
By what is known as the American Dominican Convention of
1907, the bond issue of 1908 was effected, whereby the sum
of $20,000,000 was realized by the Dominican Government. This
sum was used for the purpose of settling all claims, the purchase
of certain concessions and for public works projects. Among the
conditions under which this plan was accepted was that the United
States should lend its assistance in the collection of the public


  p. 2307 (#1271)                      

1925]
2307
U. S. Occupation of San Domingo
revenue of the Republic and that the Dominican Republic should
not increase its public debt without first obtaining the consent of the
United States. In 1912, with the consent of the United States
government, the public debt was increased by an additional loan
of $1,500,000. This loan was paid off in 1917.
Political disturbances and revolutions continued, however, until
by June, 1916, there had been contracted by the Dominican gov-
ernment additional claims of indebtedness amounting to over
$15,000,000. This indebtedness was contracted without the con-
sent of the United States, thereby violating Article III of the
Convention of 1907. This debt had been accumulated in various
ways from graft to real necessity; for the suppression of revolu-
tions, some for unpaid bills of the government, some for unpaid
salaries, and some for damages due to seizures by revolutionary
bodies.
In May, 1916, during a period of revolution and poor financial
management, the American government took action to establish
order. The marines landed and stopped the revolution. In June,
the General Receiver of Dominican Customs, (an American treaty
official), took over the collection of internal revenue. A special
deputy with three assistants was placed in direct charge of the
Dominican treasury, which was found to be in a chaotic condition.
The cash balance showed a deficit of $14,234.63, supply bills and
salaries had been unpaid for months and thousands of creditors
with accumulated accounts were clamoring loudly for their
money. Due to the fact that the government had been in disorder
for such a long period of time, the morale of the employees was
very low to the extent that continual fraud against the government
was practiced without fear either of detection or punishment. The
collections of internal revenue were irregular, and of the collec-
tions actually made only a part ever reached the treasury. No
effective check was made on disbursements and little, if any, notice
was taken of the budget in force. Since the people seemed to be-
lieve that there was little wrong in defrauding the government and
that public office was considered a license to take tribute, rather
than a sacred trust, it was very difficult to sift the legitimate pend-
ing current accounts from the fraudulent ones. A great many
claims which were presented to the government for payment were
certificates of indebtedness which had been given by the govern-
ment for debts in lieu of cash. These certificates had been bought


  p. 2308 (#1272)                      

2308
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
up by speculators at a very small fraction of their actual value.
At first an attempt was made to pay current accounts where their
correctness could be established, but this proved to be a greater
task than had been anticipated so that in August, 1916, those in
charge considered it necessary to suspend all payment under the
budget in force. This action was taken also as a matter of coer-
cion in an endeavor to force the Dominican government to meet
the wishes of the United States, but those affected most by this
suspension were not in a position to force the government and this
action consequently caused a great deal of real distress.
The Dominican Republic was placed under military government
by the United States on November 29, 1916, Rear Admiral (then
Captain) H. S. Knapp, United States Navy, issuing the proclama-
tion on that date. Although the republic was placed under mili-
tary government on that date, Admiral Knapp did not assume the
title of military governor until he was specifically ordered to do
so a few months later. The proclamation recited that,
The Dominican Republic had failed to live up to the terms of the treaty
of 1907, that the American government had patiently endeavored to aid the
Dominican government, but that the latter was neither inclined nor able
to adopt the measures suggested. Therefore, the American government be-
lieved the time at hand to take steps to assure the execution of the said
convention and to maintain domestic tranquility in the republic. The object
of the occupation was not to destroy Dominican sovereignty but to restore
order.
The military government thus established proceeded to reorgan-
ize and stabilize the activities of the different governmental de-
partments and to undertake a general improvement of the country.
It waited for some days after the proclamation for some indication
that the provisional government would in some way cooperate in
carrying on the ordinary administration of affairs. No indication
of cooperation or assistance was manifest however, and persons
familiar with conditions gave assurance that the military govern-
ment could expect no assistance of any kind, whereupon the offices
of the military government were established in the government
palace. Upon taking possession, it was found that the president
and cabinet had come to the palace after the proclamation, had
cleared out their desks, and had not since appeared in the palace.
Since it did not seem possible to get Dominicans of suitable char-
acter to accept the different cabinet offices for fear of criticism of


  p. 2309 (#1273)                      

1925)
2309
U. S. Occupation of San Domingo
their own people, and because of the attitude of the Dominican
governmental officials, it became necessary for the Military Gov-
ernor to place officers under his command in these offices in order
that affairs under the different departments could be properly ad-
ministered. This procedure met the hearty approval of politically
disinterested Dominicans, many of whom later requested and
begged the Military Governor not to think of appointing Domini-
cans in these offices, but to continue the administration of affairs
through the American officers whose work was giving such satis-
faction to them.
As noted above, payment under the budget of 1916 had been
suspended in August, 1916. Three days after the proclamation,
payments of all salaries with the exception of those of the presi-
dent, cabinet officers, congress, and major officials, appointed by
the provisional government, were resumed. This together with
the announcement that any check drawn, for payment of a salary,
would be made payable only to the individual in whose name it
was drawn, and would not be transferable by endorsement, had
the good effect anticipated.
After the proclamation there was no political disturbance of
any magnitude. Several attempts were made, but were unsuccess-
ful. The marine forces of occupation were stationed throughout
the republic and moved about as circumstances dictated. The
principal operations of the marines were directed against certain
outlaws and bandits but, as usual, the marines were able to meet
the situation. A very great deal of this banditry or outlawry was
really no worse than exists in certain parts of the United States
today, but, in view of the circumstances, was made much of by
malcontents in the Dominican Republic and, in our own country,
by critics of the United States government's action.
The populace was gradually disarmed, which of course tended
to the advancement of general tranquillity..
The holiday season, previously a period marked by shooting,
violent deaths, and so forth, was, during the 1916 holidays, quiet
and orderly throughout the country. Dominicans of wide acquaint-
ance and experience stated that the disarming of the people was
one of the best things that had ever happened to the country.
The Dominican congress, which had been sitting as a constituent
assembly, adjourned sine die on the day that military government
was declared. The next session was due on February 27, 1917.


  p. 2310 (#1274)                      

2310
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The constitution, however, provided that the terms of one half the
deputies and one third the senators should expire every two years
and, since February 27 was the regular date for the expiration of
one quota, the provisional government had issued calls for an elec-
tion to fill the vacancies.
Under existing disturbed political conditions throughout the
country, it was considered out of the question to hold such an elec-
tion. This opinion was shared both by American officials and
Dominicans themselves. An executive order was, therefore, issued
which prohibited the holding of elections in the republic.
It therefore followed that owing to the constitutional termina-
tion of the services of certain senators and deputies, and to the fact
that elections were forbidden, and that a quorum did not exist,
the military governor issued an executive order suspending con-
gress as well as suspending from office all senators and deputies
whose terms had not expired. Like the order suspending elec-
tions, the suspending of congress met with almost universal
approbation as a measure that would go far in removing disturb-
ing political agitation.
When the military government was first established there were
a number of foreigners, particularly Americans, who appeared to
feel that the government was intended more or less to be a means
of facilitating or favoring their own enterprises rather than a
serious attempt to set the Dominican Republic on its feet. A ten-
dency was manifest in those early days to rush, through the mili-
tary government, measures that had apparently been hanging fire
with the Dominican government. Even some of the Dominican
people holding high office endeavored to use "pull” to get official
sanction to illegal gains on their part. One case in point was where
a judge wished to hold his judgeship and at the same time draw
salaries for other positions under the budget. He solicited the aid
of one of the principal political leaders of the republic and in com-
pany the two men visited the military governor. The request was
made of the governor who, of course, replied that such a thing
could not be done in accordance with the law, which fact the judge
no doubt knew. The political leader had, of course, carried out
his obligation to the judge, and when he heard the governor's
answer seemed to be secretly amused.
The military government always held it as an article of faith
that it was acting as trustee for the Dominican government in de-


  p. 2311 (#1275)                      

1925]
U. S. Occupation of San Domingo
2311
fense of the interests of the people, and it refused to be rushed or
to act on such measures without knowing their merits.
The government persisted in this attitude with the result that
the conviction became general that the military government, while
it would not stand in the way of, and would on the contrary aid,
foreign enterprises authorized and conducted strictly according to
Dominican law, would not permit them to have concessions of a
character that allowed them to exploit the country for their own
selfish ends at the expense of the Dominican people.
One of the first real problems confronting the central govern-
ment was the extinguishing of all claims against it that had arisen,
subsequent to the negotiation of the treaty of 1907, estimated at
about $15,000,000, as well as providing the means of paying them
off. This question was given immediate attention, but due to its
many phases as well as membership, powers and jurisdiction of
the commission to handle it, the executive order appointing the
commission known as the Dominican Claims Commission of 1917
was not signed until June 26, 1917. This commission had for its
purpose the investigation of all claims subsequent to the adjust-
ment made to conform to the American Dominican Convention of
1907 and prior to the establishment of military government, No-
vember 29, 1916, the making of awards of amount due each claim-
ant, and for the further purpose of recommending ways and
means for the settlement of such awards.
This commission was vested with all the power of Dominican
courts and from its judgments there was no appeal. It could sum-
mon witnesses, administer oaths, examine public or private papers,
impose fines or imprisonment for contempt, perjury, obstructing
its proceedings, or any other act tending to defeat its purpose.
Needless to say it was called upon prior to the completion of its
work to avail itself of practically all the powers with which it was
vested.
The work of the commission was completed in August, 1920,
having reviewed approximately 9,000 claims on which awards on
over 6,000 were made in amounts equal to approximately
$4,250,000. In order to take care of this allowed indebtedness,
the bond issue of 1918, amounting to over $4,000,000 was made.
On July 31, 1920, due to bonds redeemed and money in the amor-
tization fund there remained less than $3,000,000 of this bond issue
yet to be paid.


  p. 2312 (#1276)                      

2312 . U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
[Dec
It is quite evident as shown by the result of the commission's
activities that its accomplishments were of paramount importance
in removing the greatest of barriers to the country's progress.
Other than the larger and well-established claims against the gov-
ernment, many resulted from the lawless acts of former govern-
ments, whose highest officials would require personal service and
entertainment from individuals who could not afford them. Many
cases of poverty were the result. The adjustment of such legiti-
mate claims caused great relief.
On the other hand, as shown by the number of unrecognized
claims, there were many attempts to defraud. Shortly after the
commission began its sessions and the public at large realized the
possibilities in connection with false claims many withdrew their
claims which had been registered. Even then there were a num-
ber of cases where fines and imprisonments were imposed because
of absolutely false claims or perjury.
Since the United States had taken over the responsibilities of
government there was no apparent reason for the continuance of
the activities under the Department of War and Marine. Con-
sequently, activities under this department were suspended and
such unfinished business or questions as might arise were placed,
with one or two exceptions, under the cognizance of the Depart-
ment of Interior and Police.
It was under this latter department that the guardia or national
police force was reorganized. This force was given training by
the U.S. Marines and it was hoped that in the long run the people
would appreciate the advantages of stabler conditions, of good
order, and that with the aid of this police force they themselves
would not further permit revolutionary movements that had done
so much in the past to retard the country's development. Numer-
ous evidences of esteem in which the police force was held were
shown. One case in particular was where the captain of a com-
pany (Sergeant, U.S. Marine Corps), had been assassinated and
high civil officials as well as the citizenry of the town expressed
their grief and horror over the assassination, declaring a two days'
mourning in his honor, closing all business houses, prohibiting
entertainment in public and private, as well as the passage of
vehicles in the public streets during that period. This may have
been to a large degree a personal tribute, but it was felt to reflect
honor on the organization to which he belonged.


  p. 2313 (#1277)                      

1925] U. S. Occupation of San Domingo 2313
In the regular organization under the law existing prior to the
coming of the military government there was nothing which pro-
vided for an adequate public health service. There was authority
for a board of sanitation, but nothing at all was being done by
this board. A surgeon of the Navy was appointed as head of this
board and under his guidance and control the board's activities
were recognized and spread to all parts of the country. Later on,
the board of sanitation was superseded by the Department of Pub-
lic Health and Beneficence.
Every activity over which the central government had control
was given careful consideration by those concerned. I will later.
take up matters that can better be handled under the different
specific departments. From time to time different officials made
extensive trips throughout the country for the purpose of getting
first hand information on local conditions, meeting the different
civil authorities, and discussing personally with them subjects
which were of particular interest to those people concerned,
and also for the purpose of discussing generally the aims of
the government as well as letting them know that the central gov-
ernment had an interest in their welfare.
When the officers of the military government first assumed their
duties they were deluged by requests, suggestions, and petitions of
every sort from all parts of the country. Had they all been fol-
lowed or acceded to it is difficult to say what could have been the
result. It was therefore quite necessary to go slowly and follow
the iron-bound policy of first examining the state of the treasury,
estimating the minimum future income, determining on the most
desirable projects, and then attempting only those most desirable
projects which would in no way hazard a safe cash balance.
It can well be seen that it became quite desirable and necessary
for government officials to make the above mentioned visits in order
to sift the desirable projects from the undesirable ones as well as
to discuss the government's method of determining its operations,
thereby letting the people know that they were receiving every pos-
sible consideration, while the government at the same time was pre-
venting a repetition of the over expenditure of funds on hand as
well as possible future income, as had been done in the past.
One of the outstanding features of the proclamation was the
announcement that
The ordinary administration of justice, both in civil and criminal matters,
through the regularly constituted Dominican courts, will not be interfered


  p. 2314 (#1278)                      

2314
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
with by the military government herein established; but cases to which a
member of the United States forces of occupation is a party, or in which
is involved contempt or defiance of authority of the military government
will be tried by tribunals set up by the military government.
This attitude was zealously guarded by the military government
and every effort was made to lend aid to the courts and increase
their prestige. The salaries of the judges which previously had
been extremely meager were increased in keeping with the dignity
of their office. It was found that the courts greatly improved, that
the increased pay of the judges had resulted in greatly raising their
independence and efficiency, while the support of the military gov-
ernment stiffened them in the performance of their duty.
Educational matters in the country were in a deplorable con-
dition. The schools were inadequately housed, there being only
enough space to accommodate a very small percentage of the chil-
dren. The school furniture and equipment were badly wanting
both in amount and condition. It had been unfortunate that in the
handling of the schools so much graft had been practiced.
In the second month of the military government a commission
composed entirely of Dominicans and headed by the Archbishop of
Santo Domingo was appointed for the purpose of going thor-
oughly into the subject of education. The secretary of the com-
mission was appointed superintendent of schools and the work of
reorganization was immediately begun. Unworthy teachers were
weeded out and less attention was paid to higher education and
much more to primary and secondary education. One of the two
so-called universities was suppressed and an effort was made to
reduce illiteracy of the masses rather than to give a limited class
a professional or literary education.
Different from the method adopted in the Philippines and Porto
Rico, that adopted here was to carry on the education of the chil-
dren in their native language rather than to force the English
language on them. It was surprising how many American and
other foreign people condemned this policy and strongly advocated
the requirement of English. It is believed, however, that they had
lost sight of the proclamation which stated that the United States
had no intention of interfering with the sovereignty of the republic
and that perhaps in a very few years the military government
would be withdrawn and there would exist the unquestionable
problem of changing the system. Furthermore, the fundamentals


  p. 2315 (#1279)                      

1925]
2315
U. S. Occupation of San Domingo
of education could be given to greater numbers in their own lan-
guage by methods to which they were accustomed, with the same
total cost.
There was soon manifest a decidedly upward trend in the mat-
ter of education as well as an increased interest shown by educated
people and the directly benefited class themselves. Improvements
were shown in all directions from the matter of school buildings,
furniture, and equipment to rectification of courses, preparation
of school books, general reorganization, compulsory attendance,
teachers' qualifications, and compensation commensurate with
their work. The attendance during the first two and one-half
years increased about 120 per cent under more modern standards
and the appropriations for school purposes in 1918 doubled those
of 1917.
Public Works and Communications.—The operations under this
heading covered a great many activities such as public works, har-
bor improvements, post office, telegraphs, railroads, mining law,
patents and trade marks. The office of public works and the gov-
ernment-owned railroad were presided over by American engineers
nominated by the United States. All funds for public works
projects had to be first appropriated by the Dominican govern-
ment and this appropriation, if from the Dominican loan, had to
be approved by the United States Department of State before the
money became available.
Operations under public works were at a practical standstill
when the military government was established, but after a careful
study was made of the situation, funds were provided for the
prosecution of work already authorized and for certain new work.
There was laid out a broad scheme of projects upon which the
remainder of the loan available for public works might be spent
in a manner that would be to the greatest advantage of the country
as a whole. This plan was approved by the State Department and
steps were immediately taken to put it into operation.
Several projects under the plan were already in operation under
contract when the military government took possession, but as
funds derived from internal savings became available in the treas-
ury, other numerous improvements were undertaken. These com-
prised such projects as repairs to public buildings, roads, light-
houses, smaller items of new construction, and harbor improve-
ments. The entry of the United States into the war brought in


  p. 2316 (#1280)                      

2316
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
the difficulty of entering into contracts with American construc-
tion companies and of obtaining materials at a reasonable price
for carrying on the major activities. It therefore became neces-
sary for the military government to carry on most of the work
by administration and to use its influence through the Navy Depart-
ment in providing the necessary equipment and materials. Fur-
ther difficulty was encountered in obtaining labor, a common con-
dition in the republic, and this proved to be a great handicap in the
carrying on of road building.
It was believed that there was nothing more vital to the develop-
ment of the country than adequate roads and there was not a pass-
able road across the island in any direction. Communications
between the north and the south, across the central mountain
range, over a distance of less than one hundred miles, was pos-
sible only by trail, often impassable in the rainy season, or by a sea
journey of four or five days. There were several sections of
highway already completed which were eventually to be parts of
main highways, but there remained practically 200 kilometers yet
to be built. After the approval of the public works plan by the
United States, the construction of a highway connecting the north
and south was carried on as fast as adequate equipment and ma-
terials arrived and the necessary labor could be obtained.
Two other projects of importance undertaken by public works
were the building of a national leper colony and a penitentiary.
The need for these institutions was imperative since lepers, though
very few, could be found in the streets coming in daily contact
with other people, and as for the jailing facilities, the word inade-
quate is barely expressive of the condition. The jails were unsafe,
unsanitary, and too small.
In December, 1917, a national road law and accompanying regu-
lations for motor-driven vehicles were promulgated and placed
under the office of public works. Previously the only laws cover-
ing the subject were local ones, as there had been no need for a
uniform law, since there were no passable connecting roads be-
tween cities. As roads were opened up, however, the new law
became necessary, for, needless to say, the different municipalities
had handled this matter in divers ways.
The general policy was to concentrate all funds and energies on
opening up of highways and second class roads rather than to
deviate any money to the building of railroads. There are two


  p. 2317 (#1281)                      

1925) U. S. Occupation of San Domingo 2317
railroads in the northern part of the island, one, a privately owned
road extending through the northern valley, east and west, from
the most thickly settled portion in the north central part, to
Samana Bay. The other road is owned by the Dominican gov-
ernment and runs from the same north central section to Puerto
Plata which is in the northern part of the island. This latter road
crosses the most northern range of mountains, over part of which
it is necessary to use geared engines, and consequently it is inade-
quate to handle all the traffic that eventually will be demanded of it.
At first this road was in an unsafe condition due to the ravages
of revolutions but, under a new management, continual repairs
were made and all the freight which had accumulated was even-
tually moved. It soon was able to handle all the business presented
to it with the result that instead of its being a burden to the gov-
ernment it became a paying utility. The income during 1918 in-
creased so rapidly that it was deemed advisable to reduce the then
high tariff by 10 per cent gross.
The mining laws of the country were extremely poor. They
were not comprehensive in any manner and gave no protection to
the government especially as to concessions granted. They were
inadequate as was proved by the fact that concession holders
used the possession of a concession for personal ends along specu-
lative lines without even the expenditure of either labor or money
in their development. They exploited their concessions in any place
where a market could be found for them with the ultimate result
that the subject of Dominican concessions received a very bad
name not only in the Dominican Republic but in foreign countries
as well. Illustrative of the abuse of concessions to interested
buyers in the United States the following story is told as some-
thing that really happened in the days before the occupation. It is
about a so-called “Paint Mine.”
Mr. Jones owns a paint-mine concession in Santo Domingo near
Haina and, wishing to sell, he communicates with Mr. Smith in
the United States, sending him a sample of the raw paint ma-
terials. Mr. Smith, after having these samples analyzed, makes
the surprising discovery that they contain gold in good paying
quantities. Much elated over this discovery he secretly interests
several friends well able to finance such a "find,” proposing that
they form a combination with the intent of buying up the "paint-
mine” concession belonging to Mr. Jones. Agreeing to keep the


  p. 2318 (#1282)                      

2318 U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
[Dec.
discovery of gold in these samples secret, they decide to send their
own representative to Santo Domingo to obtain another sample in
order to verify their analysis. This, their representative does, and,
accompanied by Mr. Jones, returns to the United States. The
second sample also shows the presence of gold! By this time,
secretly convinced of their “find,” they enter into negotiations
whereby Mr. Jones receives $20,000 in cash for the option on his
"paint-mine," with the agreement that $10,000 more will be paid
upon the arrival of the purchasers in the republic, and a further
$20,000 upon the complete turn-over of the concession.
These financiers decide to combine business and pleasure. In
a yacht belonging to one of their party, they make a West Indian
cruise. Upon arrival in Santo Domingo negotiations are completed
on the payment of the $10,000, after which the party proceeds out
toward Haina to take possession. As they near the vicinity a great
deal of firing is heard and rumors along the road warn them that
another revolution is on, revolutions being a very frequent occur-
rence in the Dominican Republic at this time.
The revolution does not abate presumably, and after waiting
some days these men finally decide to return to the United States,
and leave their representative there to take possession as soon as
possible.
Upon their arrival home a cable is received which informs them
that they have been “sold”! The revolution ended the day after
the party had departed for the United States, there was no gold
in the mine, and both the original sample and the second one had
been “salted,” the latter accomplished by substituting the rep-
resentative's sample on board ship during his voyage north.
At no time was any other than a "paint-mine” concession offered
for sale by Mr. Jones, and Mr. Smith and his financiers bought
only a paint-mine, secretly thinking they had gold.
There seemed to be just enough prospect of future develop-
ments in the natural mineral resources of the country to justify
long chances in wild-cat exploitation. As a result the military
government believed it desirable not only to cancel and eliminate
all outstanding concessions on which no satisfactory development
had been made, but to frame a mining law which in the future
would properly control this activity.
The general policy of clearing up mining concessions where the
holders were not fulfilling their obligations was carried out.


  p. 2319 (#1283)                      

1925)
2319
U. S. Occupation of San Domingo
Through the courtesy of the bureau of mines in the Department
of the Interior of the United States one of the law examiners of
that bureau came to Santo Domingo City and made a thorough
study of the Dominican mining law and other laws on the subject
and, after careful personal survey and consideration of the situa-
tion, drew up a new law which was considered adequate to meet all
needs of the republic under that subject. After all points of this
law were discussed with different prominent Dominicans who had
the general welfare of the republic at heart, and had met generally
with absolute approval, the final draft of this law was drawn up.
This law became effective shortly after I left.
The conditions existing in the postal service could be termed
utterly inefficient. The method of handling correspondence was
very complicated, tedious and slow, with the result that it had be-
come very costly and irregular. The personnel seemed to be quite
indifferent in the performance of their duty and the vast majority
of offices and agencies seldom, if ever, kept stamps on hand for
the accommodation of the public. They kept detailed statistics
in large ledgers showing the number of pieces of each kind of mail
received daily from different points and rendered regular and
elaborate reports to the central office. The handling of registered
mail was needlessly complicated and involved, requiring too much
clerical work. There was in vogue a system whereby letters could
be mailed minus postage stamps and when delivery was made
double postage was collected. Every year thousands of such let-
ters accumulated because of either improper address or refusal to
accept. It was found that domestic mail was being transported
over mail routes by anyone who would do it at the least price, day
by day or trip by trip, and with no other contract than an oral
understanding. The extreme irregularity and unreliability of the
delivery of mail can be easily understood. The buildings in which
the post offices and telegraphs were housed were usually the most
dilapidated in any city or town and consequently were the subject
of grave concern.
It is quite evident from the above that there was a vital need
for a complete reorganization along modern lines in this service.
It was therefore determined to improve and broaden the service;
to use every means practicable to increase the revenue, to econo-
mize to the limit without lessening the efficiency, and to create an
efficient, expeditious, and secure system of transporting the mails.


  p. 2320 (#1284)                      

2320
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
One of the first steps in the reform of this service was placing
of the employees under civil service rules. There were no civil
service laws or regulations in the republic and it was believed that
its creation would be an excellent means of bringing the personnel
of the postal service to a much higher state of efficiency.
It was well known that one of the fundamental causes of politi-
cal unrest in the republic had been the possession of public offices
by virtue of political association and it was felt that with this cause
removed it would naturally follow that the future would hold less
reason for repetition of disorders. It was believed that the estab-
lishment of civil service would not only tend to maintain political
tranquillity, but would be a most stimulating factor in the develop-
ment of the public school system.
There was, of course, a certain class of mentally unqualified
political employees who opposed civil service and endeavored to
discredit its purpose, but this class as well as the public finally
grasped the idea that the only way to obtain and retain positions
under the postal administration, where civil service was in force,
was to possess the necessary mental qualifications proved by ex-
aminations, together with a reputation for honesty and industry.
The broad plan of reorganization was not put fully into opera-
tion until the service of a United States postal inspector of many
years experience, both in the United States and Latin countries,
was secured. It was through the courtesy of the Postmaster-Gen-
eral in Washington that he was released from the United States
postal service to the service in the Dominican Republic.
Under the supervision of the new director, things began to move
more rapidly. Parallel with the civil service establishment every
postal official whose responsibility warranted it was placed under
bond as well as under oath of office. Among other improvements
were the handling of supplies at reduced cost, the making certain
that an ample number of stamps were on hand at all times at all
offices, installing a more systematic and responsible method of
handling mails, the causing of actual investigation of complaints
(a thing that never had been done hitherto), and the establishment
of an office for the purpose of handling dead correspondence. As
these improvements began to show good results there was estab-
lished a postal money order system and special delivery section.
Both of these systems became very popular. In the ordinary
course of events it had usually taken from five to seven days to


  p. 2321 (#1285)                      

1925)
2321
U. S. Occupation of San Domingo .
transport mail between the north and south sides of the island, so
that it is needless to say the cutting of this length of time to less
than two days met with the hearty approval of the general public.
The national telegraph service was another victim of the times,
the lines having become in such poor state of repair that many
relays were required, the personnel was poorly paid and unreliable,
and the offices and their equipment were in such a dilapidated con-
dition that the whole service was demoralized. In addition to this
the offices were open for service but a few hours during the day-
time only.
This, like the postal service, was filled with political appointees,
some of whom never appeared at their office or place of employ-
ment. It can be readily seen that this service was an expense to
the government, whereas it should have been a source of income.
One of the first steps in the rehabilitation of this service was to
eliminate the undesirable personnel, open all offices through the
day, and all principal offices for twenty-four hours' service, with
a special rate for night messages, and to take drastic steps to re-
pair the lines so as to eliminate the necessity of relaying messages.
An index to the improvement in the service caused by the carrying
out of the above items was the doubling of the receipts in 1918
over those of 1917.
Under the old telegraph tariff law, the same charge was made
for any distance with no night service, which of course was quite
primitive. A new tariff was established which was more syste-
matic being based on the distance and class of message. These
changes brought gratifying results.
Besides owning the telegraph lines the government also owned
two radio stations. The larger of these stations was at Santo
Domingo and was of an old and obsolete type. It was replaced by
a modern installation purchased from the Bureau of Engineering
of the Navy Department of the United States. A special agree-
ment was entered into with the United States Navy Department,
whereby a specially low rate would be charged for commercial
traffic through this station.
The urban telephone systems throughout the country were
privately owned, but there were no connections between any of
these systems. They varied not only as to type, but as to value,
efficiency, and adequacy. Due to the building of roads and open-
ing up communication between cities and towns there would, of


  p. 2322 (#1286)                      

2322
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
course, soon follow the connection by telephone. It was realized
that it would be futile to attempt to connect the different systems
then existent. In order to accomplish this when the time should
appear, a law was passed authorizing the national telegraph service
to take over and modernize these different urban systems when
deemed advisable and to establish long distance telephone systems.
The first step in this direction was made when the government
purchased from its private owner the system of Santo Domingo
City.
On January 1, 1919, the postal and telegraph services were com-
bined under a director general of posts and telegraphs. By doing
this both services came under one controlling agency and made
possible the housing of both activities in the same office and under
one administration in the different cities and towns, thereby elimi-
nating much unnecessary expense.
The superintendent of telegraphs, a Dominican of prominence,
made the following statement in his report of June 30, 1919:
I want to state with patriotic enthusiasm that the program of reform
and improvements that is being carried out will bring this service to the
high standard of efficiency being achieved by the most important countries.
Agriculture.-Agricultural activities outside of the sugar estates
and a few plantations in the north of the island were quite lim-
ited, since there had been very little possibility or incentive for
advanced or scientific farming. The small grower cultivated only
what was necessary for his own particular use, because on nearly
all occasions his harvest would be reaped either by some of the
army or a band of marauders. Conditions were so unsettled that
permanent extensive cultivation was not contemplated by any
excepting those who were in a position to control such activity.
As a consequence the agricultural branch of the department had
little excuse for its existence. The laws had not been enforced
and few people knew of the provisions of the laws or even of
their existence.
The first definite steps toward the betterment of agricultural
methods and the education of agriculturists were taken in June,
1917, when the system of extension work was inaugurated. This
plan divided the country into agricultural districts where traveling
instructors and demonstrators moved about giving instructions to
farmers on methods of cultivation, draining, seeds, and so forth.


  p. 2323 (#1287)                      

1925) U. S. Occupation of San Domingo
2323
In the furtherance of this work experimental stations were estab-
lished and a director of agriculture appointed.
A further considerable handicap to progress had been caused by
the revolutions of former years when the man who had the least
was really the best off because nobody molested him. The interest
in the extension work was shown by the fact that during the first
year there were approximately 350 conferences held throughout
the republic, the attendance varying from 25 to 300 farmers. Due
to the prevailing world conditions at that time it was considered
of great importance that every effort be dedicated to the planting
of food stuffs so as to make the republic independent in that
matter.
To further the interest of farmers in the production of their
crops and to instill a sense of competition in the quality of their
production, exhibitions were held in different towns.
The country did not have a vagrancy law, but there was in-
augurated under the extension law the policy to insist that idle
country people put a definite amount of their land under cultiva-
tion, subject to the inspection of the instructor of the district.
This plan met with considerable success.
In the placing of sub-experiment stations it was endeavored so
to place them that the climatic conditions of no two would be the
same. It was found that one site situated in the mountains was
adaptable to the successful growing of northern plants. Among
the products of the Dominican Republic which are of importance
are cocoa, coffee, tobacco, sugar, cocoanut, honey, cotton, fruits,
vegetables, and fiber crops. Practically the only forage crops
grown are two kinds of grass and corn. The cotton which was
free from boll weevil was protected from this pest by appropriate
steps. Tobacco being one of the principal products, and one on
which prosperity depended to a large extent and from which
a great deal of revenue was derived, the value of peaceful and
secure conditions which allowed greatly increased production of
this plant can readily be seen.
Dominicans who had had the greatest amount of experience
were appointed as assistants to the different extension workers.
It was expected that these men would eventually be made instruc-
tors under this system and be given sections of their own.
On June 28, 1919, the corner stone of an agricultural college
was laid at the main experimental station near Santo Domingo
City.


  p. 2324 (#1288)                      

2324
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The subject of agriculture was given a great deal of considera-
tion by those particularly concerned. By others it was treated
with more or less indifference. The Dominican Republic has great
possibilities agriculturally, and, while mineral wealth may be dis-
covered, thus far agriculture is the greatest source of riches in the
country, and it is a sure one under stable conditions. An attempt
was made to make this subject a familiar and popular one and to
show the Dominican people how to raise larger, better and more
varied crops, the proceeds of which would accrue to the Domini-
cans themselves and not go in a large measure to foreign corpora-
tions. It was introduced into the schools and, due to the fact that
enthusiastic school children are excellent propagandists, it was felt
that a great interest could be instilled in those at home. In the
majority of agricultural districts there were established under the
supervision of instructors demonstration fields which were worked
in connection with the schools and by the school children.
The relationship between the experiment station and the exten-
sion workers was that the station determined the proper seeds and
proper time in the year for planting, furnished seeds and necessary
data while the men in the field used the above in carrying out their
work. The extension workers also held meetings for the purpose
of stimulating interest, exchanging ideas, and making people
acquainted.
Finance and Commerce.—The general state of affairs existing
in the early days of the occupation made necessary some very
decided and early action in order not only to collect all revenues
due the government, but to expend only such funds as were prop-
erly authorized for legitimate purposes and at the same time in no
way to cause unnecessary fear of a deficit.
In the beginning of 1917 it was apparent that there was sufficient
data on hand from which a new budget could be prepared, so that
the 1916 budget was continued in force for another year. It is,
of course, quite obvious that a great many sums covered in that
budget were never expended during 1917.
Among other things accomplished were the appointing of a
depository for the funds of the Dominican government; the trans-
fer of the captain of the port from the department of war and
marines to that of finance and commerce; the granting of permits
for vessels flying the flag of foreign nations to engage in coast-
wise trade between Dominican ports in order to facilitate com-


  p. 2325 (#1289)                      

1925) U. S. Occupation of San Domingo
2325
merce; the establishment of a fidelity fund for the bonding of
employees holding positions of responsibility and trust; the passing
of laws regulating collections of consular fees; refunds of internal
revenue taxes on goods exported, and collection of import taxes on
alcohol and other articles; the enacting of a general revenue law, the
provisions of which did not so much alter the tax rate as they did
the methods of collection, this being a measure quite necessary in
order to have a reasonable certainty that the money collected would
reach the national treasury; the revision of the license law, thereby
trebling the income from this source, which income was used solely
for educational purposes and the passage of a law which, for the
first time in the history of the country, placed a direct tax on
property.
In some instances it was found desirable and necessary to re-
place Dominicans who held positions of trust by Americans. One
case in point, was that of the collector of taxes on alcohol. When
the Dominican holding this office resigned he stated that he could
not, with his Dominican connections, withstand the pressure
brought upon him to act illegally in the collection of taxes. He was
relieved by an American with the result that within a very few
days one distilling company was hailed before the courts and fined
over $100,000 for keeping false records.
General Effect of the Military Government.—The general effect
upon the country caused by the mere fact of the occupation
and all the activities under the different departments can easily be
imagined, especially if one had ever been present during the days
of topsy-turvy conditions. The internal strife soon stopped; busi-
ness improved and fairly boomed; agriculture became active not
only on the larger estates but on the small farms of individuals
who never before had attempted to plant a crop; schools were
built and filled; roads and means of communications were opened
up and improved, and there was a general atmosphere of increased
activity.
The revenue of the country increased substantially as evidenced
by the fact that when military government was proclaimed the pro-
visional government had just borrowed several thousand dollars
for daily needs, salaries had been unpaid for a considerable period,
and a debt of several hundred thousand dollars had accumulated
by overpayments on the budget. By January 1, 1918, all these
back salaries had been paid, current salaries paid as they became


  p. 2326 (#1290)                      

2326
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
due, the overpayments on the budget had been liquidated and
$500,000 set aside for the first year's expense of the guardia. Sub-
stantial sums were devoted to such matters as education, public
health, maintenance of public works, and general projects for the
benefit of the country and there then remained on hand about
$1,500,000 unobligated.
As a comparison of the amount of internal revenue collected it
can be noted that the collections for May, 1916, amounted to about
$25,000 while those for June, 1917, amounted to over $125,000.
This showing was due to the fact that the money collected was
being turned into the treasury and into substantially increased
business.
The customs collections, which had been under the supervision
of American officers for some time increased due, to a large ex-
tent, to the confidence felt in the stability of conditions by reason
of the presence of the military government, resulting in an in-
crease of business. During the first month of military government
(December, 1916), the customs collections amounted to about
$420,000 and by June they had risen to $545,000, which up to that
time was the largest ever made.
Such a showing as indicated by the increased receipt of revenue
would have been impossible under the old conditions and illustrates
the possibilities under conditions of tranquillity and economical
administration.
As the republic became affected by the United States' entry into
the war, however, there was a falling off of the customs receipts,
but this was offset by the continued increase in the amount of
internal revenues collected, so that the government continued to be
able to administer its affairs within its income and at the same time
devote a great deal of money to general improvements. Among
such further projects was the topographical and natural resource
survey of the country for which the sum of $300,000 was set aside.
This project was actually started in 1919, the United States Geo-
logical Survey undertaking the work. The government also made
provisions for loans to municipalities in order to encourage them
to undertake public works which would improve living conditions
of the people and add to their health, comfort, and convenience.
The following statistics are taken from the report of the gen-
eral receiver of customs, for the thirteenth fiscal period:
The foreign trade of the republic during 1919 was the largest in the
history of the receivership. Merchandise valued at over $20,000,000 was


  p. 2327 (#1291)                      

1925)
2327
U. S. Occupation of San Domingo
imported through the custom houses during the year, an increase over the
preceding year of nearly $2,000,000.
Exports during the same period amounted to practically $40,000,000, the
increase over 1918 being over $17,000,000, which clearly indicates increasing
industry and progress and the healthy condition of the country.
The most gratifying feature of the increase in foreign commerce is the
large balance of trade in favor of the republic amounting to over $17,500,000,
nearly double that of 1916.
The conservative policy maintained resulted in the accumulation
by the end of 1919 of a surplus from which it has been practicable
to make special appropriations for public works totaling
$3,270,203.97. These appropriations were for building of roads,
schools, public buildings, and port improvements. If it is borne
in mind that when the United States intervened the treasury
balance showed a deficit of over $14,000 and current salaries
and supply bills had been unpaid for six months the effect of the
change in the management is quite clear. At the second Pan-
American financial convention held in Washington, D.C., in 1920,
the conference committee of the Dominican Republic composed of
bankers, economists, and business men of large affairs, in its reso-
lutions stated that from a study of reports and information sup-
plied by the official delegation it had been established:
a) That the financial condition of the Dominican Republic as
a result of the currency reforms and fiscal system described in the
annex report is excellent and that the finances are established on a
sound basis which will permit the further growth and development
of the republic.
And Resolved that this committee takes pleasure in endorsing
the policy heretofore and at present pursued in establishing cur-
rency reform and a fiscal system which has resulted in the present
satisfactory financial growth of the republic and which will per-
mit of the further growth and development of the public resources.
Note: The government of the Dominican Republic was turned
back to a provisional government composed of Dominicans in
October, 1922, in accordance with the plan which was mutually
agreed upon by representatives of the government of the United
States. The provisional government so inaugurated administered
the offices until the regular elections were held, November, 1924,
and a constitutional government was inaugurated.


  p. 2328 (#1292)                      

ARE YOU WORTH IT?
By LIEUTENANT COMMANDER WALTER E. BROWN, U. S. NAVY
TUST how much are you worth to your wife? Not in a senti-
mental way, but in terms of dollars and cents? It would
seem a simple question to answer, but actually, because of the
way the future enters into the problem, it is far from simple.
If we suppose you are an ensign receiving $2,200 a year, of
which (neglecting insurance) approximately $600 a year is spent
on yourself with no benefit to your wife, then her income from
you is $1,600 a year. To be sure some of this goes for overhead
that benefits both of you, but whether you are at home or on the
China Station that overhead is necessary for her comfort. Capi-
talized at 6 per cent this $1,600 represents an investment of
$26,700. That is what your job is apparently worth to your wife.
It is worth some $10,000 more to you.
However, should she cash in on her investment in you for
$27,000 she would be making a big mistake. For as soon as you
become a lieutenant (junior grade), you will be worth $44,000 to
her; as a lieutenant, $60,000; as a lieutenant commander, $79,000;
as a commander, $103,000; and as a captain, $107,000. Even if
you retire as a commander, you are worth $50,000 for the rest of
your life.
In other words as long as you remain in the Navy you are of a
constantly appreciating and easily calculated present value, at your
maximum being worth about four times your minimum. So even
as an ensign, because of your future expectations, you are worth
considerably more than $27,000. It is impossible to calculate
just how much more, for neglecting the fact that you may die
tomorrow, your wife, because she is married to you, can expect her
unavoidable expenses to increase as children arrive and the family
responsibilities increase.
If, on the other hand, we suppose you have now become a com-
mander, your wife would be foolish (in a strictly business sense
of course) not to grasp the opportunity of cashing in on you for
$103,000 if she has the chance. For if you should happen to die


  p. 2329 (#1293)                      

1925]
Are You Worth It?
2329
today your value has dropped to six months' pay, perhaps $2,500,
and a small, a very small, pension, if you have been fortunate
enough to die in the line of duty, while that $103,000 would bring
her an income of over $6,000 for the rest of her life, and for the
rest of the lives of her children and grandchildren after her.
You, as an investment, don't fulfill for your wife one prime
requisite of a good investment. You are not safe. She stands to
make big capital gains with you, but she also stands to lose every-
thing, and as your value increases her risks increase also. In order
to' make yourself an absolutely safe risk you have to make sure
that her income continues unabated after your death. And this
in practice means that you have to insure your life for what you
are worth to her. What she will receive from you while you live
will be less than before, because your expenses have been added
to by the insurance premiums that you have to pay. And by the
same token they have to be deducted from what she would other-
wise receive.
Again let us suppose you are an ensign, twenty-four years old.
Your personal expenses are $600 (and if you think that excessive
just figure out what you actually do spend for food, clothing, car-
fare, amusements, and incidentals for yourself alone). You carry
a Navy Mutual Aid policy which will pay $6,000 and costs you a
trifle over $45 a year. Straight life insurance will cost approxi-
mately $14.50 a thousand. A little figuring will show that if you
pay $276 a year for insurance your wife will have about $1,320 a
year as her part of your pay, and will receive on your death
$22,000. This, if invested at 6 per cent, will yield her the same
amount that she gets now, and if put into an annuity may give her
more. (There is not much advantage in an annuity taken out un-
Pay & Personal Navy
Age | allowances expenses Mutual
Straight Wife's Total
life income insurance
$600
600
600
Ensign
Lieut. (g)
Lieut.
Lt. Comdr.
Comdr.
Captain.
$2,200
3,260
4,040
5,460
6,825
7,200
$ 236
452
607
956
1,408
1,504
$1,320
2,160
2,780
3,730
4,630
4,790
$22,000
36,000
46,300
62,200
77,200
79,800
700
87
700
800
106
Amount of insurance that must be carried to assure your wife her present income


  p. 2330 (#1294)                      

2330
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
der fifty.) You are an absolutely safe investment for her up to
$22,000, and in addition you still retain all your appreciative
values.
If now as you advance in rank you cover your increased worth
by insurance (which of course grows more costly as you grow
older) your permanent safe value is, as shown by the above table,
$36,000 for lieutenant (junior grade); $46,300 for lieutenant ;
$62,200 for lieutenant commander; $77,200 for commander; and
$79,800 for captain. Your wife meanwhile receives about two-
thirds of your total pay, or for commander and below within
one hundred dollars or so of what a bachelor officer at sea receives.
These amounts represent, therefore, the theoretical value of the
life insurance that you should carry in one form or another to
assure your wife a steady income whether you live or die. Any
savings that you may accumulate, any property that you or she
may have, can fairly be deducted from it. If your private income
is equal to your naval pay, then no insurance is required to
guarantee the value of your naval position to your wife, though
insurance is required to guarantee her the continuance of the in-
come she receives while you are alive.
But a very brief inspection of the figures will convince anyone
that for all practical purposes the insurance as thus arrived at is
too high, especially in the lower grades. You may agree that only
$1,300 of your ensign's pay of $2,200 should go to your wife, but
it is doubtful, what with two-room apartments costing $50 a month
and up, whether she will agree with you. As a matter of fact no
life insurance agent that knows his business will advise you to carry
so heavy a load. Considering you as an investment, your wife will
have to take in return for the great increase of value she will get
from you (if you live) a less degree of safety.
Budgets issued by professional budget-makers allocate a mini-
mum of 10 per cent of the income to life insurance. This per-
centage rises to 25 per cent in the $7,500 salary class. That mini-
mum is all right provided that the income is above a certain
minimum amount. But anyone with a position to maintain, as
every officer's wife has, and but a small amount of money to main-
tain it with, as every junior officer's wife also has, will question
the figures. Being young, both she and her husband discount the
future for the benefit of the present. Altogether too much so, if
you listen to any older officer, let alone any life insurance agent.


  p. 2331 (#1295)                      

1925)
Are You Worth It?
2331
A compromise between the viewpoints of your wife and the budget-
maker is plainly in order.
When you married, you, to all intents and purposes, undertook
to support your wife for the rest of her life. In consideration of
this she tacitly agreed to run your home and act as managing
superintendent of your family for the same period. She also agreed
that an ensign's pay, or rather the part of it she got, was enough
to provide for the overhead and running expenses of the home
besides supporting herself. If you were so unfortunate as to
marry when you were further along than an ensign, then we must
assume that it was not the lack of a sufficient income that deterred
you, but the fact that you had not as yet met your wife. With
these assumptions we have a starting point for determining the
amount of insurance that every officer should, we might almost
say “must,” carry.
To start out with we will admit without argument that an ensign
should allocate at least $100 of his salary to insurance, even if he
has to cut out smoking to do it. Your personal expenses (you
are an ensign again) are $600 and your wife is going to receive
$1,500 a year. She may not think it enough to pay the rent, the
butcher, the baker, and the candle-stick maker, but an ensign's
pay is inelastic, and it will admit of no more. Besides, even if you
married immediately on graduation, she has only three years to
carry on before she will get more. Unless you die first.
So we can reasonably fix $1,500 as the absolute minimum that
your wife is entitled to receive after your death. This represents
a capital investment of $25,000, and this, therefore, is the absolute
minimum amount of insurance that any officer should carry in
one form or another. Below this amount it is not a question of
how much you can afford to carry, but how much you can afford
not to carry.
We have kept $100 of your ensign's pay for insurance pre-
miums. Approximately $45 goes to the Navy Mutual Aid for a
$6,000 policy. This is term insurance and is not to be recom-
mended as a form to be taken out in any line company. (Inci-
dentally this $6,000 instead of costing $45 is actually costing
around $35, but that is another story, and you have to pay the
$45.) There is left $55 to be placed with a regular insurance
company. For this you can buy about $4,000 of straight life
insurance. The total of the insurance you carry and the six


  p. 2332 (#1296)                      

2332
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
months' pay that your widow will receive amounts to $10,750.
A very respectable start toward the $25,000 at which we are
aiming. It is to be noted that we have arbitrarily decided because
of your youth and the fact that you will receive an increase of pay
within a year or two that you can afford not to carry $15,000
worth of insurance. But we have stretched a point to do it.
When you get to be a junior lieutenant your salary takes a
jump of slightly over a $1,000. Here is where you catch up on
your contract with your wife, perhaps over her strenuous ob-
jections. She will want that $1,000 a year, and you can't blame
her. Still you had better get that insurance while you are young
and can get it cheap. Every policy has a cash surrender value of
something less than the amount paid in, so it is in no sense money
thrown away in case your wife should die and you have no other
dependent for whom you wish to provide. We would better ac-
cept the budget-maker's minimum figures and allow 10 per cent
of your total income to life insurance. For a junior lieutenant
that amounts to $330 a year or $230 more than you have been
paying. This will buy about $15,000 more insurance, which with
the six months' pay makes a total of $26,500 for your widow. We
have reached our minimum of $25,000 and your wife is getting
$750 a year more than she was. No matter whether she thinks it
enough or not, you cannot afford not to take your full coverage.
And it will cost so much more later that it would be poor business
if you could afford it.
Your wife is now assured of at least $26,500 on your death even
if you should die tomorrow. That means that, if that money is
safely invested, she will be getting what she did when she was
first married, and perhaps in addition a small pension. She is
thus assured of a livable income for herself and her children.
Your premiums are not over 10 per cent of your salary, and you
are young enough to have your insurance cost almost as little as
insurance can cost anyone. (It is of interest to note that your
insurance is costing less per year than the upkeep of even a very
cheap automobile.)
Now, if by logical reasoning we have arrived at the absolute
minimum estate that you should leave your widow, we should by
similar processes of reasoning be able to determine what the
reasonable minimum is if you are to play fair with her.
You are practically certain of promotion to lieutenant com-
mander, though you may be a long time getting there. You are


  p. 2333 (#1297)                      

1925]
2333
Are You Worth It?
reasonably sure of promotion to commander, but you are far
from certain of promotion beyond that point. If after twenty-
eight years of service you retire at fifty as a commander, you will
receive as your retired pay $3,550 a year. Provided that you have
taken out no additional protection since you were a junior lieu-
tenant you will be paying premiums of about $390 a year on
$25,000 of insurance. (Your Navy Mutual Aid has gone up
about $50 in the last twenty years.) Your wife will receive as
her share of your pay about $2,400 a year. If, on the other hand,
as you go through the grades of lieutenant, lieutenant commander,
and commander you take out additional insurance up to 10 per
cent of your income, you will be carrying around $39,000 and pay-
ing as premiums about $680. Your wife will get $2,100 as con-
trasted to $2,400 a year, and her income after your death will
exceed her income while you are alive. Clearly our figure lies be-
tween $25,000 and $39,000.
A half hour's calculating will show that if you carry $36,300,
taken out as you were promoted, you will be paying $617 in pre-
miums and after you retire your wife will receive close to $2,180
whether you live or die. The premiums are perhaps a little high
for your retired pay. But then no one expects you to sit around
and twiddle your fingers just because you are fifty. You can
certainly earn enough to pay your insurance premiums.
Logically, then, $36,000 is the reasonable minimum insurance
that you should carry. The first $25,000 is taken out within three
years of graduation whether you intend to get married or not.
(For, as to that, you never can tell when you may get married.)
The last $11,000 is taken out at a rate that never exceeds 10 per
cent of your pay as you rise in the naval hierarchy. There may
be circumstances that may cause you to decide that you can afford
not to carry all of the $36,000, but the circumstances will be rare
indeed that will justify you in deciding that you cannot afford to
carry it all.
Now how much are you worth to your wife? Are you worth
a lot alive and nothing or next to nothing dead? Or the next
time that your wife, in an unjustifiable burst of ire, tells you
just how worthless you are, can you look her square in the eye
and tell yourself that she is all wrong; that you are not worthless ;
not by a long shot; no, and never will be, least of all when you
are dead?


  p. 2334 (#1298)                      

DISCUSSION
Possible Improvements in Our Gunnery Training
(See page 1696, September, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
COMMANDER H. K. Hewitt, U. S. Navy.—The suggestions made by
Lieutenant Commander Blandy in his article “Possible Improvements in our
Gunnery Training" may be summarized as follows:
1) The elimination of the present Short Range Battle Practice from the
gunnery program of active units.
2) The establishment of a gunnery school for the purpose of elementary
gunnery training.
3) The establishment of a two year cycle in the gunnery training of
the fleet.
4) A change in the system of awarding prize money.
5) A change in the method of computing gunnery merit, and
6) A revision of target sizes.
The first two of these suggestions are inter-related, since Lieutenant
Commander Blandy himself admits that some form of elementary practice
should be fired every year, if there be no gunnery school of the type he
proposes. It seems logical, therefore, to discuss first the desirability of the
gunnery school.
The Gunnery School.—The proposal of a gunnery school is not al-
together new, but has usually taken the form of an advanced school for
officers, and leading ratings, rather than an elementary school through which
all recruits must be passed. The gunnery school of the British Navy is a
school for gunnery specialists, officer and enlisted, who have already had
fleet experience, and have demonstrated their aptitude.
Any school requires both student and instructor personnel, and a certain
amount of material. In our case these would have to be furnished at the
expense of the fleet. Since one or more gunnery training vessels would be
required, and since the complements of active fleet units are already at a
minimum consistent with proper upkeep and training, the establishment of
a gunnery school large enough to train all deck force recruits would result
in a considerable reduction in the number of vessels operating with the
fleet. The advisability of such a procedure is seriously open to dispute.
There is no question but that all gunnery officers would welcome, with
open arms, recruits who were graduates of Lieutenant Commander Blandy's
school. But they should consider also that the available period of service
of these men on board ship will have been shortened by the time spent at
the school, and that reducing the average time of a man on board increases


  p. 2335 (#1299)                      

1925)
Discussion
2335
the annual turnover of gun stations. Our short enlistment is a great handi-
cap in this respect.
Lieutenant Commander Blandy states: “The elementary training received
at the gunnery school would be standardized, and since the officer and petty
officer instructors, through constant practice, would become expert in their
work and the instruction given would be uniformly excellent." It is diffi-
cult to see how elementary gunnery training can be made more standard
than it now is, nor how officer and petty officer instructors can have much
more constant practice than at present. As to uniformity, the instructor
personnel of the school would be subject to the same changes as are general
throughout the service. It is believed that the elementary training of re-
cruits on board ship, under the present system, is more thorough than it
could be under the proposed system. In the former case, crews are made
up of a large percentage of trained men; in the latter, at the gunnery
school, they would be composed almost entirely of green men. The atten-
tion that can be devoted to the individual recruit is manifestly greater when
he receives his training on board a regular vessel of the fleet.
It is therefore believed that recruits should be sent to the fleet as soon as
they have learned the rudiments of naval discipline, and that their training
in gunnery, as well as in other important branches, should be carried out on
active units. A gunnery school, if established, should be devoted to the
advanced gunnery training of officers, and of special enlisted ratings.
Short Range Battle Practice. If there be no elementary gunnery school,
it is agreed that some form of elementary practice must be held each year.
It is an axiomatic principle of training, that individuals must be trained as
members of a small group before that group can become an efficient unit
of a larger group.
The form which the elementary practice should take is open to consider-
able discussion. The present Short Range Battle Practice is a development
of many years, when “pointer fire” was the only system used. Now, "pointer
fire" is only an auxiliary system for directing guns. In fact, it is some-
what doubtful whether "pointer fire," as the term is generally understood,
would ever be used except for broadside and anti-aircraft guns. It is
probable that turrets using individual control, particularly if reduced to
storage battery power, would fire director fashion.
The short range battle practice, in its present form, accomplishes the
following:
1. It trains individual gun crews, and tests materials, for short (but not
for long) bursts of fire.
2. It trains members of the pointer group in an auxiliary system of
directing the battery.
3. It eliminates those men who are temperamentally unfitted for im-
portant gun stations.
4. By intense competition between individual units of the battery, it
arouses great interest in gunnery on the part of the enlisted personnel.
The present practice fails in that it:
1. Does not train gun layers and director pointers in the primary system
of gun direction.


  p. 2336 (#1300)                      

2336
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
2. Gives no training, or at least, no normal training, to the fire control
party.
3. Does not train guns' crews for a sufficiently sustained period of fire.
Short range battle practice was eliminated several years ago. Immedi-
ately afterward, the fleet showed a lowered gunnery efficiency. This may,
or may not, have been a coincidence, but the immediate result was a return
to the old form of practice on the following gunnery year. Three years
ago a modified practice was fired by battleships, which consisted of a fairly
long uninterrupted string, half of which was fired by director, and half
by pointer fire. As a matter of training, my personal experience was that
this practice was far superior to the present practice. It trained director
pointers, gun layers, and gun pointers. It exercised the loading crews in
a reasonably extended burst of fire, and permitted the fire control party to
function almost normally. It was unsatisfactory in that (1) the short
range introduced many artificialities in procedure to care for extraordinary
parallax in the director system, and (2) the method of determination of
hits by camera was most inaccurate, and very slow, causing loss of interest
and extreme dissatisfaction on the part of the personnel. The criticism of
the practice was so severe, that on the following year, another return was
made to the original practice.
It is my opinion that some form of elementary practice is absolutely
necessary each year, unless our whole personnel system is changed.
One criticism is that too much time is given to the preparation for short
range battle practice. This happens to be the case because the practice is
usually fired in the fall, and the whole summer is available for training.
Ships, naturally perhaps, concentrate on the first practice to be fired, and
do not look beyond to those which are to follow. This is really a short-
sighted policy. The summer training period should be devoted to general
instruction and training, and only one or two weeks to special preparation
for short range battle practice. The reduction made by the Department in
the weight of this practice should help to remedy this condition. The evo-
lution of a less artificial practice would most certainly do so.
The Two-Year Gunnery Cycle. It is not believed that ships carry out
too many practices in one year. Ships may take too much time in “practice
runs,” rehearsing the special procedure for a given practice, but they do
not do too much firing. General gunnery training may, and should, be
carried on contemporaneously with tactical and strategical exercises, and
other activities. A two-year cycle, without material reduction in the number
of practices per year, would provide opportunity for advanced gunnery
training of all units, and would result in a great increase of efficiency, were
the personnel sufficiently stable to carry over the lessons and experience
of one year to the more advanced problems of the next. It is officer
personnel which is mainly concerned with advanced gunnery, and it is
officer personnel which suffers the greatest turnover, an average of more
than 33} per cent. For this reason the two-year cycle, even with one ele-
mentary practice each year, appears inadvisable.


  p. 2337 (#1301)                      

1925)
2337
Discussion
Prize Money.—The purpose of prize money is to stimulate competition
and to reward individual excellence. The smaller the group considered as
a unit for the award of a prize, the greater is the incentive, and the greater
the justice to the individual, for each contributes a proportionately larger
share toward the final result. Conversely, the larger the group, the greater
the number of inefficient individuals who might be carried to success by
association with more efficient mates. As an example, it might be the case,
and, in fact, has happened, that the battleship standing one in long range
battle practice had the poorest secondary battery score. Why should the
secondary battery crews receive a money reward just because the main bat-
tery happens to be very efficient?
The healthy competition between battery units, stimulated by the promise
of prompt reward, makes for a ship spirit which produces results for the
ship as a whole. It is believed that prize money should remain the reward
for small groups, while trophies and pennants remain the reward of the
ship.
It should be noted that prizes for fire control parties are no longer paid
as a result of short range battle practice, where the fire control party has no
primary function, but are paid as a result of long range practice. Further-
more, the secondary battery fire control party is made separate and distinct
from that of the main battery.
Computation of Merit.—Lieutenant Commander Blandy suggests a change
from the present "graded merit" system to a "standard score" system.
Briefly, the present system adopts the score of the high ship in each prac-
tice as the standard for that practice, and grades the others accordingly.
In the proposed system, the Department would set an arbitrary standard,
on which the merits for each practice would be based.
Theoretically, the standard score system would be ideal, could the score
which should be made by the “perfect" ship be accurately determined. Prac-
tically, this is not possible. Practices are modified from year to year, and
new practices are introduced. Improved methods produce higher scores.
There is never any way to evaluate accurately what this improvement may
be. Ships have been known to make merits of 200 to 300 on the basis of
standard scores which were thought, before the practice, to be high. Had
the standard score system been in use, these ships would have had points for
these practices two or three times the weight assigned the practice. Mani-
festly this would be most undesirable, and unfair to vessels who did well
in practices that were of more importance.
Lieutenant Commander Blandy argues that a particularly high perform-
ance by some ship reduces the value of scores made by other vessels, and
that this, in effect, actually reduces, for them, the weight of the practice.
This statement is true, but it should be borne in mind that, in theory at
least, the high score is a mark attainable by all, and vessels should be graded
accordingly. Under the present system it is not possible for any ship to re-
ceive a greater number of points for a practice than the relative importance
of that practice warrants.
Apparently, the principal fault found with the graded merit system is
that, in the absence of knowledge as to high scores, it is not possible for


  p. 2338 (#1302)                      

2338
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
two ships to determine their relative standings accurately. This objection
is now eliminated, as far as it seems possible to do so, by the Department's
policy of prompt publication of high scores to all vessels concerned.
Target Sizes.—Lieutenant Commander Blandy says that the targets used
should have approximately the same size as the objectives in battle. There
can be no argument on this point. However, material targets as large as an
actual objective are, in most cases, impracticable. It becomes necessary,
therefore, to use constructive targets, which is done insofar as camera
facilities permit. It is manifestly not possible to obtain accurate observation
of fall of shot at night, and the amount of camera work necessary to record
the fall of shot for the daylight practices of all vessels is prohibitive. Where
triangulation cameras can not be employed, the use of material targets
becomes necessary. For these, our battle rafts are used to represent prob-
able objectives, as clearly as possible, considering their size limitations.
The criticism which is directed at the size of the destroyer target is
understood to apply only to the targets which are used for a certain division
practice. These targets, owing to conditions imposed by the practice, were
designed to present approximately the same target area when viewed from
any bearing. In size they are not comparable to probable objectives, unless
the presentation be end on, a situation which is possible, but which would be
most difficult to handle.
Possible Improvements in Our Gunnery Training
(See page 1696, September, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER T. M. SHOCK, U. S. N.—The interesting points
brought out by Lieutenant Commander Blandy in this article are particu-
larly apt and well taken, in these days of strenuous gunnery work. How-
ever, to me, the great defect of our gunnery training system lies in the
fact that it lacks continuity, to a certain extent, and it is not sufficiently
progressive. One year's work does not advance to another year's work.
Each year, in the battleships, after the college work of gunnery, the advance
and long range practices, we needs must return in the fall to the kinder-
garten, the short range battle practice. This is undoubtedly due to the
large annual shift of personnel. It is possible to dispense with short range
battle practice, with a few modifications of the yearly schedule.
Of course, the best remedy for the present congestion would be the adop-
tion of the two-year gunnery cycle. Barring this radical change, the short
range battle practice could be abandoned. In addition to the reasons enumer-
ated in the article, this form of practice is highly artificial, and is productive
of bad gunnery habits and ideas. It is mainly apt to cause a neglect of
the director and plotting room crews during the period of training for
short range battle practice.
As a substitute for this practice, for the qualification of pointers and
their training, Lieutenant Commander Blandy proposes a Naval Gunnery
School, separate from the fleet. It is doubtful, however, if the formation of
such a school, separate from the fleet, is entirely practicable in these days
of large personnel turnovers. It is not thought that the fleet could stand


  p. 2339 (#1303)                      

1925]
2339
Discussion
the segregation of large quantities of men for such special training. Since
short range battle practice is for the sole purpose of training and qualifying
gun pointers and gun captains, the abolition of this practice would necessi-
tate the substitution of some other means of training and qualifications. A
satisfactory qualification could be obtained by examination and observation
of individuals during the practices of the gunnery year. The yearly re-
qualification of pointers and gun captains should not be necessary. Can we
not safely assume that “once qualified always qualified" is a safe principle
to adopt, as long as the qualified man is serving satisfactorily in the capacity
for which qualified ? Unsatisfactory work would terminate the qualification
by the removal of the individual from the gun at which serving. Thus the
situation is always in the hands of the gunnery or division officer. The
qualification partakes of the nature of a “rate.”
The prize money, now given at short range battle practice, as suggested
by Lieutenant Commander Blandy, would be well expended at the more
advanced practices during the year, without sacrificing the keen competition
and interest that goes with the “money" practice of the year. The awarding
of prize money to battleship and fire control parties at the real big "show"
of the year is a big step in this direction.
The congestion of the schedule could be a bit relieved by continuing active
gunnery work through the summer months. Of course this would cause
howls of protest from the first lieutenant, the chief engineer, and others
too numerous to mention, but it would give us all a more leisurely gunnery
year, which cannot help but be productive of increased efficiency and con-
tentment. Is it an unalterable law of nature that guns must be fired "in
the spring and in the fall”? In the San Diego-San Pedro area much time
is wasted each year, especially in the spring, due to poor visibility. The
gunnery schedule is so finely timed that any delay, due to low visibility,
causes considerable trouble and confusion. The summer, from all reports,
is ideal for gunnery purposes in this vicinity, especially as to visibility.
I have wandered a little from the main subject of Lieutenant Commander
Blandy's article, but it is my earnest opinion that anything done to ease the
present day schedule, whether it is the elimination of unnecessary practices
or the use of other seasons for gunnery, will produce greater efficiency and
contentment.
A Mooring Board Problem
(See page 1716, September, 1925, PROCEEDINGS)
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER GEORGE E. BRANDT, U. S. Navy.—Good. A
troublesome problem greatly simplified. Lieutenant Commander Gatch has
done a real service in placing this where we can find it in that hour of need.
A few bits of navigational wrinkles like this would be very helpful if
printed in the back of the gunnery instructions.
It seems to me that the actual mooring board work can be even further
simplified by omitting that portion of the drawing about the point O. That
is, instead of drawing OD why not draw Bm to represent the course and
speed of the target. Then draw ME, to represent own ship's course and
speed. Draw BE, and on BE, lay off BE equal to 4,000 yards.


  p. 2340 (#1304)                      


THE CURTISS ARMY RACER, WHICH WON THE PULITZER RACE, AND LIEUTENANT Brrris, U'. S. ARMY, THE PILOT. A NEW
WORLD'S RECORD OF 248 075 Muks PER HOUR WAS ESTABLISHIFT)


  p. 2341 (#1305)                      

PROFESSIONAL NOTES
PREPARED BY
LIEUTENANT COMMANDER H. W. UNDERWOOD, U. S. Navy
FROM SEPTEMBER 3 TO OCTOBER 3
PS
............................................
2342
2356
The New Bress and Par
e........
GENERAL ARRANGEMENT
SOME BRITISH VIEWS ON DIRIGIBLES AND FUTURE CONSTRUCTION OF
SURFACE SHIPS ......
FRANCE
The French Naval Renaissance.....
..... 2352
French Destroyer Trials.....
2354
French Light Cruisers and Flotilla Leaders ......
2355
GREAT BRITAIN
Navy Progress and Pacts......
The New Battleships .........
2357
The British Navy's Needs and the Mosul Issue..
2360
The Airship Controversy.........
2361
JAPAN
A Peace Protest from Tokyo.......
2362
America, Let's Reason Together.....
2365
UNITED STATES
Ships Building.
2370
The Air Board Personnel...
2370
The Mitchell Plan.........
2372
The Aeronautical Crisis. ......
2377
AVIATION
The Pulitzer Races...
2379
The Progress of Civil Aviation (British)..
2382
Anti-Aircraft Defense ...
2383
ENGINEERING
The Wing Rotor ......
2390
The Position of British Marine Engineering ......
........2391
Thornycroft Shallow-Draught Ships for China
2394
The Stability of Ships.......
2396
MERCHANT MARINE
The Shipping Board and Admiral Palmer .........
2397
The Shipping Board Controversy....
MISCELLANEOUS
The Trade and Industry of Persia...
2401
Amphibian Operations
2403
A New Industry.........
2405
CURRENT NAVAL AND PROFESSIONAL PAPERS..
2406
.......................
...............................
2400


  p. 2342 (#1306)                      

2342
Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
SOME BRITISH VIEWS ON AIRSHIPS AND FUTURE NAVAL
CONSTRUCTION
Editor's Note: Although the following may not disclose anything new
on the subject matter which has occupied the front pages of the press the
past few months, it may be of interest to our members to know some
British viewpoints. In addition to the following the reader is advised to
refer to pages 1756-1758, Professional Notes of the September, 1925, PRO-
CEEDINGS of the Institute, and to the article in the Saturday Evening Post
for October 24, 1925. See also "Secretary's Notes," this issue.
The following correspondence sent to the Editor by Admiral Sir W. H.
Henderson, (Retired) Royal Navy, is printed with his permission.
Sept. 4, 1925
Following up my letter to you enclosing an article on "Airships," pub-
lished in the Evening Standard, I am sending cuttings of some correspond-
ence that has taken place in the Morning Post between its naval corre-
spondent and me.
By an extraordinary coincidence my last letter was published in yester-
day's issue, the day of the loss of the Shenandoah, which I regretted very
much to hear of, especially accompanied as it was by the loss of so many
good lives. Pray accept this, my expression of sympathy.
I feel sure I am on the right track on this question of airships and that
soon it will be realized in the United States that they are fair weather craft
only, and, as such, may be used in some selected positions for reconnaissance
work, but that for commercial purposes they will never be a paying propo-
sition or to be depended upon.
Please make any use of the cuttings you like.
Are Airships Futile?
Need for Charting the Upper Air; The New Navigation, Morning Post,
22 June, 1925.-Two of the sailor's greatest assets in navigating from port
to port are his compass and his charts. The first gives him a sense of
direction when there is nothing else to guide him, while the latter show him
not only the depth of the water, the configuration of the land, and rocks,
shoals, or other dangers, but also there are special charts indicating the
prevailing winds, ocean currents, and tidal streams.
The use of these navigational appliances has become second nature to the
mariner; he steers by his compass in mid-ocean with the same confidence
that a man walks a well-known track in the dark; he reads his chart as the
motorist consults his road map, but with this difference: the motorist wheels
his way on solid earth, the seaman has to be ever on the alert for being
set out of his course by winds and currents.
As an old seaman, it has occurred to Admiral Sir William Henderson
that the airship is likely to find itself in a sorry plight because it may
encounter wind currents of 100 miles an hour against which, even with a
speed of 70 m.p.h., it could make no headway at all.
Writing in an evening contemporary he has elaborated this argument and
other disabilities which he maintains are inherent in the lighter-than-air
craft. He arrives at the conclusion that the airship "disregards the first
principles of transport, which are that a ship .... must have a power of
motion of its own greatly in excess of the medium in or on which it moves."
From this he argues that airships can never be more than fine weather craft
and that the country is wasting money in producing them.
This is a serious charge, for airships are costly things, and we cannot
afford "fair weather" luxuries which cannot pay their way in peace, and
would have very limited value in war. The revival of a government policy
to build airships has been largely due to the fact that the Admiralty has


  p. 2343 (#1307)                      

1925)
2343
Professional Notes
strongly emphasized their potential uses for commerce protection in war.
If airships are to be used by the navy they must be able to operate under
far more arduous conditions than those to be encountered on a set route in
favorable weather.
If there is no answer to Admiral Henderson's arguments, the future of
these aircraft would indeed seem gloomy, but he appears to have viewed
everything from the plane of the ocean's surface. He, doubtless, has in
mind the monsoons, hurricanes, gales, and storms which prevail in various
parts of the world according to the times and seasons. Moreover, he
stresses the fact that whereas the ship of the sea can generally find a
natural shelter, the airship is at the mercy of the elements until once more
safely housed in its shed.
It is natural that these influences should present themselves to the
seaman as formidable objections to this new means of transport, and no
one will appreciate better than he the need for investigating this problem
fully before being unduly optimistic about the future of airships. Unless,
however, "seasense" and "airsense" are combined, the one is liable to lack
imagination and the other experience in reviewing this matter.
If airships are to navigate safely it is essential that the upper air should
be charted in the same way that sea currents and surface winds have been.
It is impossible to exaggerate the importance of this work. When we
know with reasonable accuracy the prevailing winds and air currents at each
successive strata of the world's atmosphere from 1,000 to 30,000 feet, air-
ships may be able to navigate with the same degree of security as ships of
the sea.
At 5,000 feet there may be a raging gale against which an airship would
battle in vain; at 10,000 there may be a flat calm, and at 15,000 a favorable
breeze. In fact, airship routes, out and home to the Far East, may become
established at regular altitudes corresponding with the season of the year,
just as sailing ships and, to a less degree, steamships vary the latitude of
certain of their routes.
The Meteorological Department, which is coordinated at the Air Ministry,
is known to be investigating this big problem, but the means at present at its
disposal would seem to be quite inadequate.
The subject is an international one, for it affects all civil aviation, and it
is essentially one in which the navy should assist, and in which the aid of
the mercantile marine should be enlisted. Observations of the upper air are
taken to a great extent by releasing small free balloons and observing their
behavior. Here again the seaman with his aptitude for using a sextant
must prove invaluable. The navy is vitally interested in the future of air-
ships. It is therefore to be hoped that the Admiralty will take an active
hand in charting the upper air.
For the rest one cannot but think that Admiral Henderson is unduly
pessimistic. In arriving at his conclusions he recalls many of the misfortunes
which have occurred to airships, but makes no allusion to their achievements.
The United States Naval airship Shenandoah has been out in fair weather
and foul for well over a year now. During that time it crossed the Rockies
in a gale, sailed down the Pacific coast, and returned in safety to its base
on the Atlantic side.
Our own R-34 crossed and recrossed the Atlantic safely, and R-33 made
a notable trip across the North Sea and continent. The Atlantic has more
lately been crossed by ZR-3, now the Los Angeles. These are not the
achievements of fragile craft incapable of facing the elements. Little air-
ships were out constantly in bad weather patrolling the coast during the war.
The airships now building, which Admiral Henderson regards as "un-
wieldy monsters," but mark the logical progress of events. The giant
liners of today would have seemed "unwieldly monsters" to Columbus, yet
they are the outcome of the brave endeavors of those who set forth, fear-


  p. 2344 (#1308)                      

2344
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ing neither winds, currents, nor uncharted seas, and with no certainty of
finding shelter.
In the same spirit pioneers of this new means of transport will launch
their craft into the blue, but, today, science makes it possible to investigate
in advance the obstacles and perils which await them, and to provide resting
places in the form of mooring masts, so situated that an airship can always
run for safety, as a ship makes for harbor.
The seaman has done battle with the elements for countless generations;
to him should be entrusted all that appertains to this new navigation.
Airship Problems
Difficulties of Navigation, Morning Post, 8 August, 1925.—To the Editor
of The Morning Post.—Sir:-Your Naval Correspondent in your issue of
June 22 makes the grave and inevitable admission that if an airship has
not a speed comparable to, or even greater than, the current in which she
happens to be immersed, and if she cannot extricate herself from this cur.
rnt by rising to a higher and possibly safer region, then air navigation by
an airship is difficult if not impossible.
To escape from this dilemma he asserts that "it is essential that the upper
air should be charted in the same way that sea currents and surface winds
have been." Sea currents, which are subject to little variation, are well
known and accurately charted. The prevailing winds, however, except in
the tropical regions of the trades and monsoons, which vary within con-
siderable limits and are subject to dislocation by hurricanes, cyclones, and
typhoons, are only given as an average of an enormous number of direct
observations, extending over a long period of time. They vary daily and
even hourly, both in speed and direction, and can only be used as possible
approximations. It would be impossible to obtain even such approxima-
tions by any known means of observation in the upper currents of the
atmosphere.
The lifting power of an airship depends upon the buoyancy of her gas
bags. This lifting power is dependent on the pressure of the atmosphere in
which the ship is immersed, and taking the extreme height mentioned by
your correspondent of 30,000 feet as an example, where the mean tempera-
ture is 50°, and no human being can exist, the pressure is less than one
third of that at the surface of the earth, and her lifting power would be
inadequate to support her own weight, it being assumed that gas has been
released to reduce the internal pressure to that of the surrounding atmos-
phere. If gas is retained the lift is still further reduced, and the gas bags
may burst.
Whatever the height at which the ship is navigated these relative condi-
tions hold good; gas, which is a valuable and expensive commodity, has
often to be released, and must be replaced as soon as possible for naviga-
tion in the lower regions, therefore, filling stations must be available.
As a matter of fact, an airship is totally incapable of rising to the heights
mentioned. The maximum possible rise of one, assuming that the weight of
her hull, machinery, and other items is only two thirds of her total lift, is
under 10,000 feet. This disregards the dynamical lift of her rudders, against
which has to be set a safe margin to be allowed for increase of weight
caused by such ordinary contingencies as a fall of snow, a shower of rain,
a heavy fall of dew, on her enormous surface. A normal fall of the
barometer, even, affects these conditions, so the height to which an airship
can attain carrying a full cargo is relatively small.
When the limitations of "lift" of an airship are understood, it will be
realized that the proposed establishment of a "network of ship stations in
the Atlantic for daily attacks on the atmosphere with pilot balloons, kites,
registering balloons, and aeroplanes" and "the investigation of the whole


  p. 2345 (#1309)                      

1925]
2345
Professional Notes
region of the atmosphere up to 30,000 feet,” would be futile, and an un-
warrantable waste of money, for in view of the impossibility of an airship
ever reaching more than a fraction of these heights, the precise value of
these expensive investigations from an airship point of view appears to be
nil. A chart of the upper air would be out of date in a short time, whereas
one of the sea holds good for centuries.
The “logical progress" of events is referred to. The history of our air
fleet cannot be regarded as logical or in any way analogous to the gradual
and continuous development of primitive seagoing craft to great ocean
liners. Our present air fleet, R-33, R-36, R-37, R-80, L-64, and L-75, have
all been in their hangars since 1921, except for the brief and checkered
career of R-33 in April last.
After this period of inertia arising presumably from incapacity for use-
ful employment, two gigantic airships with correspondingly large and ex-
pensive paraphernalia are in process of construction, notwithstanding the
fact that these ships are in every respect subject to the like conditions of
current, to the same inability to rise to the heights which your correspond-
ent has himself stated to be essential, and liable to the identical dangers
which have ended the careers of most airships since 1910.-Yours,
W. H. HENDERSON, Admiral (Retired)
3 Onslow Houses, S.W. 7.
Airships of the Future
Increased Interest; Commercial and War Requirements, Morning Post,
15 August, 1925. (By Our Naval Correspondent.)—The continued success
of the United States' naval airships, and the progress being made on the
designs of our new big lighter-than-air craft are leading to increased atten-
tion being paid in both countries to the future of airships, both for commer-
cial purposes and as units of the fleet.
Admiral Sir William Henderson, in his letter published in the Morning
Post of August ii, returns to his attack on the policy of building airships
which he started in a contemporary a couple of months ago. Referring to
an article of mine on the subject, which appeared in these pages on June
22, he entirely misconstrues my meaning when he says I make "the grave
and inevitable admission that if an airship has not a speed comparable
to .... the current in which she happens to be immersed, or if she cannot
extricate herself .... by rising to a .... safer region then airship naviga-
tion is difficult if not impossible.” This is the basis of his own contention
that in building airships we are wasting money. I do not agree that it is
necessary for an airship to have a speed comparable to any current in which
she may find herself, and his deductions as to lifting powers are misleading.
In the article referred to I was reviewing the future of airships largely
from the point of view of their utility to the navy, and I pointed out that
for such a purpose they would have to operate under far more arduous
conditions than those appertaining to a set route in favorable weather
The ideal naval airship should be able to remain several weeks in the
air in any part of the world where ships are wont to sail the seas, and to
maintain her station in any weather. This may be asking too much of such
craft, and is certainly beyond their capabilities at present, but it is quite
possible that in time we shall see war airships and commercial airships
as distinct in design as men-of-war and merchant ships of today.
At present it certainly will not pay to run commercial airships capable
of ascending to heights of 15,000 or 20,000 feet. Commercial work will
doubtless be done at well under 10,000 feet.
Commercial airships will be able to select their routes according to sea-
sons and prevailing winds. The fact that they can shape course over the
land or over the sea gives them a far wider choice of routes, especially to


  p. 2346 (#1310)                      

2346
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
the East, than a ship has; moreover, and this is a vital matter which I
think Admiral Henderson has overlooked, their high speed will enable them
to run rapidly out of the path of a local gale or storm.
As to the general endurance of airships, this has steadily improved, and
the Shenandoah and Los Angeles have already given proof that they are
not merely fair weather craft. In the war, airships were in their babyhood,
but even so, they were stouter infants than many people realize.
Airship Problems
Some Elementary Facts, Morning Post, 3 September, 1925.—To the Editor
of The Morning Post.-Sir:-The article of your Naval Correspondent
in your issue of the fifteenth ultimo deals much in generalities, which can-
not be replied to except by a simple exposition of elementary facts for
which I could not ask space.
No improvements of design or expenditure on research can alter the laws
under which airships have to exist, relating to the currents of the air, the
lifting power of lighter than air gases, which can easily be worked out by
referring to the tables giving the density of the air at various heights, the
danger from lightning, and at mooring masts from gales, which are in-
creased by increase of size; the difficulty of maintaining their trim while
moored, and their extreme vulnerability. No airship can be made to rise
to higher regions except by reducing her own weight, which can only be
done by valving gas, discharging fuel, cargo, or ballast which may have
been taken on board in substitution of either. The difficulties of manipula.
tion have been illustrated over and over again by the history of every air-
ship that has existed, and especially so by a critical examination of the per-
formances of the Shenandoah, R-34, and the Los Angeles, which you could
not give me space to collate from the available material.
Size does not overcome nature's laws, but merely accentuates the diffi-
culties; its great disability is decrease in handiness and security. There
will be great difficulty in mooring these monsters in strong winds, and in
gales they will not be able to remain at their mooring masts.
Your correspondent states that "their high speed will enable them to run
rapidly out of the path of a local gale or storm." In some cases possibly,
yes, but I take the following from the China Sea Pilot, Vol. III, which is
authoritative:
“The area covered by typhoons is very variable, some are quite small,
twenty to thirty miles across, while others extend over a region of hundreds
of miles in diameter. The mean diameter of the dangerous part-this it
must be remembered is wind to ships, but currents to aircraft-of a typhoon
may be taken as 100 to 200 miles. With increasing north latitude typhoons
tend to increase in size and diminish in intensity. The rate of progress of
the center of the typhoon varies from five to forty miles an hour, the speed
of the wind often reaches 26 to 31 m.p.h. at 500 miles from the center, in-
creasing to as much as 75 m.p.h. at thirty miles from the center."
The above is a correct description of all revolving storms.
Your correspondent quotes from an article in the current number of the
R.U.S.I. Journal. To be of any value the number of casualties and fatalities
should be shown as a percentage of the numbers of the personnel who flew
those miles, not of miles flown. A dispassionate examination of the work
done by these small craft would now show it was wasted effort.-Yours,
W. H. HENDERSON, Admiral (Retired)
September 2.
October 10, 1925
Thank you for inserting my short article on airships in your September
number. I sent you while I was away my correspondence in the Morning


  p. 2347 (#1311)                      

1925]
2347
Professional Notes
Post on the same subject. I much regretted the loss of life entailed by the
loss of the Shenandoah, but so far as one can at present judge, her loss
supports all the conclusions which I have advanced against the practica-
bility of airships from a constructional, navigational, transport, and financial
point of view. They are fair weather craft, and their disposable lift, when
all stresses are provided for, will be exceedingly small.
I hear a small book is coming out before long which will give a history
of all the American and British airships built since 1918, and thoroughly
shows up their disabilities. If it is printed I will send you a copy. It is
just as well the public of both countries should know the facts concerning
them.
I see you have also reprinted an article from the Army, Navy and Air
Force Gazette, which in its concluding paragraph sums up opinions that
have been expressed by me over a good many years, and which are strongly
emphasized by existing conditions.
I see that one of my letters on the 2,000-ton cruisers was in The Times
of November 25, 1921.
I am enclosing a cutting from the Naval and Military Record of June 24
which gives some later views; but I think you must take in the Naval and
Military Record and will have seen, also, Sir Herbert Russell's articles
on the same subject. I enclose a cutting of one of them. Others were
"Problems of Economy," September 16, and “The New Battleships," Sep-
tember 23. I consider Sir Herbert Russell by far the most advanced and
liberal minded of our naval journalists.
Commenting on the launching of the Nelson, both the Times and the
Daily Telegraph stated that she and the Rodney would probably be the last
big ships ever built. Opinion against these unnecessary and costly monsters
-monstrosities really-is growing over here; and it only wants comprehen-
sion and united action with the United States to bring matters down to more
simple conditions and save the waste of enormous sums of money.
I am a strong advocate for simplicity generally, and of function, in par-
ticular. The complexity of a 35,000-tonner is such that every function with
which she is endowed impairs her fighting value as a gun armament vessel
which is her primary, and with its necessary concomitant, her only func-
tion. In the same way a cruiser is a gunship only, torpedoes are no use to
her for attempting to fight battleships or new cruisers. She requires guns
to fight her kind and to resist destroyer attacks, while the destroyer's
primary function is torpedoes for attack of battleships and cruisers, but
she also must have guns for fighting her own kind.
I deprecate an airplane's being carried by any fighting ship. The ship
cannot be made subservient to her planes, which she is; directly they go
off her, functions must not be interfered with, and a sporting chance must
be given to the crew of the planes for their lives.
You are, of course, quite at liberty to make use of any of my ideas.
Sincerely yours,
W. H. HENDERSON
Editor's NOTE.—See "Secretary's Notes” this issue; also pp. 2356-2359
this issue.
Capital Ship Problems
Admiral Sir W. H. Henderson's Views, The Naval and Military Record,
24 June, 1925.—To the Editor of The Naval and Military Record.—Sir:
In your issue of June 10 Sir Herbert Russell propounds and answers the
question, "Will the Battleship Pass?"
With his conclusion I have for long been in agreement, and stated in the
press during the Scott controversy that a 10,000-ton cruiser could perform


  p. 2348 (#1312)                      

2348
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
all the functions of a battleship, provided there was an international agree-
ment that ships should not be built of greater size.
I can only hope to supplement the able reasoning by which Sir Herbert
has, I think, proved his query. I have always thought Admiral Sir Percy
Scott would have carried his case against the battleship had he only been
then able to take wider grounds. His conceptions did not go beyond the
dreadnoughts of 1914-18, built to compete with German dreadnoughts, all of
which were constructed for use in the narrow scas of Europe, with the con-
comitant weapons then brought into use.
He was naturally taken up by the advocates of the battleship, who saw
no further than he did, and who knew the naval architects said a duplica-
tion of size was possible, and that there were still available weights that
could be made use of protectively against the mine and torpedo. It was the
old battle of guns v. armor over again, and would have like results.
If it had not been for the Washington Conference we should have had
ships of 50,000 tons and over, for competition would have been open and
universal. The Conference at least limited size and the caliber of guns,
although even the signatories did not have their eyes opened to the new
strategical conditions which were the result of the war, or they would
still further have reduced the size and simplified the conditions of the agreed
capital ships.
The naval lesson of the war is that the construction and composition of
the fleets of 1914-18 was such that they could only be used in narrow
waters; that many bases of every kind were essential to them.
The powers of resistance of the new ships "have immensely increased,"
but this can only be for a period, until the powers of attack have developed
proportionately. Meanwhile, the strategic fields have shifted from the
narrow seas to the oceans, particularly the Pacific Ocean, where there are
no bases except at such distances as prohibit the use of fleets as now con-
stituted. Nothing can be altered so long as the Washington Treaty re-
mains in being. That is till 1936, and even were it abrogated before that,
and competition and rivalry reintroduced, it is impossible to conceive that
bases could be provided or maintained in sufficiency over its vast militarily
unproductive areas.
The corollary to this is that fleets must be constituted to fit the strategic
fields in which they may have to act. This, to take the question of the
battleship only, will need the elimination of the big ship, and necessitate
the use of smaller, simpler, and more mobile craft. The nation that first
takes the lead in building that of 17,500 tons for that of 35,000 tons, as it
is stated the French propose to do, will have the advantage. During the
Scott controversy I publicly stated that a 10,000-ton cruiser could perform
all the functions of a battleship, provided there was agreement that no na-
tion should have ships of greater size; it is a question of agreement only.
There is also another factor. Everything, whether it be organic or in-
oganic, and especially the productions of man, reach in their development
a point of maximum efficiency at which they become stabilized, or are super-
seded by new and more efficient forms, which eventually take their place.
There can be no question but that, judged by this standard, the 35,000-ton
battleship has long passed this point, and that in size, cost, and complexity
she is much too monstrous for the purposes for which she can be usefully
employed.
We have already begun with the 10,000-ton mobile cruiser, and I believe
we are on the verge of a reconstruction of all our ideas concerning the com-
position of fleets.
W. H. HENDERSON, Admiral (Retired)


  p. 2349 (#1313)                      

1925]
Professional Notes
2349
Smaller Fighting Ships
The Reaction from Colossal Displacement, by Sir Herbert Russell, The
Naval and Military Record, 5 August, 1925.—Broadly speaking, there are
at the present day two schools of opinion regarding the value of the capital
ship. There is the school which holds that she has outlived her utility,
and there is the school which believes that she still maintains her traditional
place in the general principles of sea war. But between this broad division
of thought there is a large body of indefinite opinion which, while unpre-
pared to express any conclusion as to the future of the capital ship, would
compromise with the question by greatly reducing her size.
The Washington Conference, of course, took a specific step in this direc-
tion. The original proposal was that no ship-of-the-line laid down sub-
sequently to the signing of the treaty should exceed 30,000 tons displace-
ment. The technical experts, wedded to the idea of progressive develop-
ment, resisted this limit, and the figure was increased to 35,000 tons. At
this time we had in commission the Hood, 41,200 tons; the United States
were building the Saratoga class of battle cruisers of 43,500 tons; and
Japan had in commission the Nagato, of 40,000 tons. But the Hood is un-
questionably the biggest warship ever yet designed or laid down.
The material school was rather dismayed by the Washington limitation:
it was already talking of the 55,000-ton battleship, and the famous Hadfield
firm had built and tested a 20-inch gun which, presumably, it was proposed
that she should mount. On the other hand, the tactical school, which is only
impressed by size and power to the degree in which these conform to sheer
utility, was disappointed with the Washington limitation in that reaction
was not carried nearly far enough. Agreed that the heaviest gun, the
stoutest armor, and the greatest speed should have the best chance of vic-
tory, there still remains Nelson's dictum that "numbers alone can annihilate."
Bigger ships must necessarily mean fewer ships, and the logical issue of
such a policy would ultimately be so few ships as to reduce war to a sort of
duel between champions.
The late Sir William White laid it down that there can be no finality in
warship design, and this is obviously true. But in every product of human
invention there is a point of maximum efficiency beyond which it is im-
possible to go, and at which evolution has to seek a new direction, or else
become stabilized, and consequently cease to be evolution. The sailing ship
reached this point, and was superseded by the steamship. The reciprocat-
ing engine reached this point, and was superseded by the turbine. The
cylindrical boiler reached this point, and was superseded by the water-tube
boiler. It would not be difficult to almost indefinitely extend the list, but
these examples illustrate the truth of this principle.
The tendency in warship design—or at any rate in capital ship design,
which we are now considering—is to develop complexity during progress
toward the maximum point of efficiency. I am not referring to complexity
of detail, which is inevitable to progress, but complexity of purpose. Pri-
marily, every type of warship has a definite offensive function, but the
modern aim seems to be in the direction of rendering her capable of various
performances. The weapon of the battleship is the gun. Why, then, fit her
with torpedo tubes ? Did the Great War produce any evidence that the
battleship could be used for torpedo attack? Simplicity in any given rôle
assuredly gives the highest efficiency of result, and to multiply that rôle by
imposing other purposes upon it is to reduce efficiency by diffusing it, so to
speak. Yet we shall find that the chief factor in the great growth of dis-
placement lies in this multiplication of purpose. The Hood carries the same
main armament as the Queen Elizabeth.. Why, then, should she be 13,000
tons bigger? Because it was decided to enable her to carry out the func-
tions of the cruiser as well as of the ship-of-the-line. If such a combination


  p. 2350 (#1314)                      

2350
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
were practicable without involving the violation of other important prin-
ciples, the possible advantages of it would form their own justification. As
it is, we have to consider whether these possible advantages are worth the
price. In order to attempt to answer this let us consider the price.
The first point in this connection, by the natural association of ideas, is
economy. Here on the face of it the big ship appears to score. When
simplicity is departed from, and a great increase in capacity is demanded,
relative saving in cost is effected by size. To build and maintain a 40,000-
ton ship would be more economical than to build and maintain two 20,000-ton
ships, presuming the collective fighting value to be identical in both cases.
It is quite probable that the question of cost was a very prominent factor
in the general conditions of competition which forced the rapid growth in
displacement. But when we come to the heavy collateral expenditure upon
harbor accommodation, dry-docks, and the like involved in this policy, the
purely economic aspect begins to wear quite another aspect. To use a
homely metaphor, the fewer the number of baskets you use the less it will
cost you (for baskets) to distribute your eggs, but if you are presently
obliged to enlarge your shop window in order to display your baskets at
all the saving may easily vanish. The money that has been spent and still
remains to be spent, at Portsmouth, Devonport, and Malta simply as con-
sequence of the growth of battleship dimensions would probably absorb, and
possibly more than absorb, the saving effected by the constructive principle.
But while money is the chief sinew of war we cannot always reckon war
values in terms of money. So we have to consider the question as to
whether the big ship is worth her price in other aspects than the purely
economic one. Assuming that we can mount half the number of heavy
guns, employ armor of equal protective effectiveness, and attain an equal
speed in a ship of 20,000 tons, what is the advantage of the 40,000-ton ship?
She will be a better gun-platform; she can deliver heavier salvoes; and she
will possess a wider sea-keeping radius. It is a debatable point as to whether
these advantages are not rather more apparent than real. In weather con-
ditions under which a 20,000-ton battleship cannot make effective shooting
a vessel of double the displacement is not going to do very much better.
Given efficient fire control, two ships with six guns apiece shooting at an
enemy vessel should be able to do at least as much damage as one ship with
twelve guns, while the risk of suffering crippling damage is practically
halved. Since battleships are designed to operate at no great distance from
a base, and not for sea cruising purposes, the question of radius of action-
of course within reasonable limits-is really not of supreme importance.
To no other sea service is the question of numbers so important as it is
to the British Navy. It is true that battleships do not figure in our over-
seas distributions outside of European waters, but there are clear indica-
tions that they may do so at no very distant date. At any rate, Singapore
is being developed as a capital ship base. Therefore, the principle of con-
centrating the greatest degree of power in the fewest number of hulls is not
a wise one for the British Empire. Rivalry must always be a dominant in-
fluence in naval design. We could not afford to reduce the size of our
capital ships, if such reduction involved a corresponding loss of fighting
power, while other nations maintained the full permissible limit. But need
such a reduction necessarily involve anything approaching a corresponding
loss of fighting power? Need it, in fact, involve any appreciable loss at
all if we eliminate the element of complexity which is primarily responsible
for the rapid growth in tonnage, and stick to the definite function of the
definite type ?
Take, for example, the question of defense, which nowadays makes such
a heavy demand upon displacement. A great many naval men share in the
opinion of Admiral Sir Reginald Custance that the best defense is offense,
and that two more big guns would be worth very much more than their


  p. 2351 (#1315)                      

1925]
2351
Professional Notes
weight in broadside protection. I believe that one result of overhead attack
and underwater attack will be a radical modification in the long-accepted
principles of armor distribution, and that, except for vital positions such
as magazines, armor will be gradually reduced to the proportions carried
by cruisers. No doubt the suggestion will be resisted, but the fact remains
that the want of armor did not prevent hard fighting during the war on the
part of the cruisers and destroyers. At least half the naval personnel is
expected to fight in vessels without any armor protection at all, and in the
case of the destroyers to fight principally against armored ships.
Reductions of the burden of armor may well prove a preliminary step
to reduction of displacement. If we arrive at international agreement to
limit the size of battleship guns, as has been done in the case of cruisers,
then we may see a reaction that will not only result in a very much smaller
capital ship, but a capital ship which will partake very much more of the
character of a big armored cruiser than of a battleship as we now under-
stand the term. It is quite conceivable that we may have reached such a
modification of constructive principles before the time arrives at which we
should resume the building of capital ships under the Washington agree-
ment. As far as it is possible to read the future, by that time we shall be
the only European power maintaining battleships at all. If the United States
and Japan continue to maintain a battle fleet, I suppose we shall have no
alternative. At the present time strategical considerations are centered in
the Pacific. Here the Washington limitations with regard to bases would
render it impracticable for the United States battle fleet to operate. Quite
a different type of ship is required for service in remote seas from that which
is designed fo narrow waters, and the 10,000-ton cruiser is a vessel which
I suggest represents perception of this fact. The bigger and more complex
a fleet, the greater the need for bases: during the last three years of the
Great War there was never a fighting unit from Scapa to Palestine operat-
ing more than 300 miles from a base.
The gigantic battleship appears to me to be of even less use to the United
States than to ourselves, for that country has to contemplate much greater
distances in her strategical outlook. Temporary bases are a poor com-
promise with the necessities of a modern fleet. America would be much
better served by a type of big ship especially adapted to ocean work. Prob-
ably she quite recognizes this herself, but finds a difficulty in consequence of
her rivalry with Japanese sea power. But as Japanese naval policy is de-
fensive, it would probably suit her very well to come into line with any
international proposal to limit displacement and gun power in her future
construction. It is certainly not improbable that the destiny of Japan may
bring her to war, but in this event she would wait to be attacked, and as
near to her own base as possible.
The tactical advantages of the smaller ship are, I believe, generally
realized. The primary cause of the result at Jutland was that, as in the
eighteenth century, we remained bound to the principle of the line-of-battle
formation. The Grand Fleet was too big for such a formation, which could
be (and actually was) rendered impotent by an unsuspected or disconcerting
maneuver. The lesson of Jutland is the necessity for greater flexibility
and more opportunity for initiative, and to this principle numbers certainly
contribute. Smaller ships imply greater numbers; they likewise mean a
“spreading out” of risk, with the result of encouraging a commander-in-
chief to follow the Nelsonian doctrine very much more effectively than was
attempted at Jutland.
The bigger weapon only calls forth the more formidable response. We
are now able to claim that the bulge makes the battleship reasonably safe
against torpedo attack. The answer will be a bigger and more devastating
torpedo. The danger of the mine is certainly not going to lessen-offense
never does. Development designed to counteract it means an unending


  p. 2352 (#1316)                      

2352
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
process of growth in displacement. The inevitable result is the production
of a ship too costly, and representing too large a proportion of total fighting
power, to be lightly risked. She is stultified by virtue of her superlative
qualities, and spends most of her career in a boom-closed anchorage
FRANCE
The French Naval Renaissance
The Engineer, 16 October, 1925.—The naval power of France has been
very considerably augmented during the present year by the completion of
new vessels that were laid down in 1922 and 1923, under the first section oi
the postwar building program. Delay has occurred in almost every case,
owing in part to alterations in the original designs and in part to technical
difficulties, but the Ministry of Marine is hopeful that thirty new units
will be commissioned before next spring. The most important of these ves-
sels are three cruisers-Duguay-Trouin, Lamotte-Picquet, and Primauquet,
sister ships of 7,873 tons displacement, engined for a speed of 34 knots. The
design is frankly experimental, for it is nearly a generation since the last
high-speed cruiser was built in France and the present staff of the Section
Technique-corresponding to our Royal Corps of Naval Constructors-has
had no practical experience in this branch of construction. It is, therefore,
not surprising to learn that the preliminary steam trials of the Duguar-
Trouin have failed to give complete satisfaction. Full details are not yet
to hand, but it appears that the power developed by the turbine machinery
at given pressures did not result in the speed expected. Pending further
information, we shall ignore the unofficial reports which are current in
regard to this matter. It is not only in the French Navy that recent ships,
designed for extremely high speeds, have failed to justify expectation. We
observe that two American cruisers, which were acclaimed not long since as
the swiftest vessels of their class in the world, have just been withdrawn
from service to have their turbines "modified," a euphemism which appar-
ently implies radical changes in their propelling machinery. In Japan, also,
the 33-knot cruiser Kinu broke down badly on a recent trial, and engine-
room troubles have been not infrequent in others of her class. It says much
for the courage of French constructors that they undertook to build a
cruiser with a higher legend speed than that of any existing ship of this
type. The Duguay-Trouin, of 7,873 tons, has machinery of 100,000 shaft
horsepower, while H.M.S. Emerald, of 7,600 tons, is designed for 80.000
shaft horsepower. Bearing in mind the unequalled experience of British
naval constructors in the design of very fast ships, and the admitted pre-
eminence of our engineers in the construction of steam machinery for marine
purposes, the discrepancy between these figures is significant. At the same
time, it is but fair to add that the French ship, in contrast to the Emerald
is virtually destitute of armor, and, in effect, represents an extreme ten-
dency to sacrifice every other attribute to speed. The same principle ap-
pears to have inspired the design of two later and larger ships, Duquesne
and Tourville, which were laid down during the summer. They are to dis-
place 10,000 tons and to have machinery of 130,000 shaft horsepower. The
utmost speed attainable, combined with adequate gun power and little or
no protection, would appear to be the tactical policy which now governs
French naval construction. The armament of the Duguay-Trouin class
consists of eight 6.1-inch guns paired in splinter-proof turrets at bow and
stern. These guns are a high-velocity model, with a length of 55 calibers.
The weight of the projectile is unknown, but in range and precision the net
weapon is said to surpass the 7.6-inch gun mounted in older French cruisers.
Of equal interest are the torpedo craft which are now running their
trials. Six of them are flotilla leaders, unprecedented in size and power, all
of which were laid down in private yards in 1922-23. The Jaguar and her


  p. 2353 (#1317)                      

1925)
2353
Professional Notes
five consorts are ships of 2,359 tons displacement, with a length of nearly
400 feet, a breadth of 36 feet, and machinery of 50,000 shaft horsepower for
a speed of 35.5 knots. Drawings which have been published show the lines
of the hull to be extremely fine, and this fact, taken in conjunction with the
heavy armament carried, lends a special interest to the behavior of these
vessels at sea. As first designed, they were to have had six 5.1-inch guns,
but it soon became evident from tank experiments that the weight of this
armament would seriously prejudice their stability, and one gun was accord-
ingly deleted. They also have two 75 mm. anti-aircraft guns and six 21.7-
inch torpedo tubes on triple mountings. Two different types of turbine-
Rateau and Breguet-are represented in this group of ships. There are
five small-tube boilers, burning oil, and sufficient fuel is carried for a voyage
of 2,500 miles at 18 knots. The Jaguar, which began her trials two months
ago, has developed condenser trouble, though it is said to be of a minor
nature. The Tiger, of the same class, attained a speed of 32 knots, with
only 26,000 shaft horsepower, and subsequently worked up to full power,
maintaining 35.5 knots with ease. Bad weather was encountered on this
trial. When running at full speed the bows of the ship tended to lift out of
the water unduly, but otherwise she behaved admirably, and showed herself
a better sea boat than had been anticipated. Good reports have also been
received of the initial trials of the Leopard and Chacal. The two remain-
ing vessels, Lynx and Panthère, have not yet reached the trial stage, but
will probably do so before the end of the year. It is proposed to form the
Jaguar, Tiger, Leopard, and Chacal into a division légère rapide, which,
after a three months' course of training, will make a cruise in northern
waters, calling at ports in Great Britain and Scandinavia. Fifteen more
flotilla leaders are included in the program, for completion by 1931, and
several of them have already been ordered. They will be slightly larger
than the Jaguars, and will carry 5.5-inch guns in place of 5.1-inch. The
British Navy has no torpedo craft comparable with the Jaguar, to say noth-
ing of the latest French design. Our largest flotilla leaders are lighter by
600 tons, and are armed with five 4.7-inch guns. On the other hand, they
are at least I knot faster. It is, however, very improbable that this new
development in foreign naval construction will be overlooked when the
methodical replacement of obsolete destroyers is begun, two years hence. In
addition to the flotilla leaders described above, twelve destroyers are being
completed for the French service. Laid down in 1923, they have a dis-
placement of 1,434 tons, engines of 30,000 shaft horsepower for a speed
of 33 knots, and are armed with four 5.1-inch guns and six tubes. Six other
boats of the same class are on the stocks, and fifteen more are projected.
They are simply a smaller edition of the Jaguar type, but a lower speed has
been accepted for the sake of a heavy armament. If the current building
program is adhered to, France will eventually possess fifty-seven torpedo
vessels of post-war design, all of large dimensions and high speed, armed
with 5.1-inch and 5.5-inch guns, and carrying torpedoes more powerful than
the standard model in our navy. She will have, besides, nine fast cruisers-
including six of 10,000 tons, mounting 8-inch guns—and more than one
hundred submarines, fifty-nine of which will be of the very latest con-
struction.
In view of this formidable array of light naval craft, which could be em-
ployed with telling effect in the narrow waters of the Mediterranean, French
naval strategists do not appear to be greatly concerned about the weakness
of their battle fleet. No attempt has been made to replace the Dreadnought
France, which was wrecked three years ago, nor apparently is there any
intention of doing so. The six remaining dreadnoughts have all been thor-
oughly renovated since the war, and even the three Dantons still on the
active list have been modernized to some extent, though their fighting value
is small. It would seem therefore that French naval opinion still cherishes


  p. 2354 (#1318)                      

2354
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
a certain respect for the battleship, despite the almost supreme influence now
wielded by the Jeune Ecole, in whose philosophy of warfare the great ship
has no place. Yet it is exceedingly improbable that France will ever build
another battleship. For some months past the Ministry of Marine has had
under consideration the design of a croiseur de combat, which is highly
commended by distinguished naval critics. It is, in effect, a light battle
cruiser of 17,500 tons, capable of steaming at 34 knots. The armament of
eight 12-inch guns is disposed in two quadruple turrets, en échelon amid-
ships, thus commanding-in theory—an all-round field of fire. Vital parts
are protected by armor strong enough to resist all except the heaviest pro-
jectiles. Room is provided for eight aeroplanes, and the forecastle or the
quarterdeck is fitted with a flying-off platform. Under the Washington
Treaty, France is at liberty to utilize her allotment of capital ship tonnage
as she may consider advisable. No objection could be raised therefore if
she decided to build two of these 17,500-ton battle cruisers in lieu of one
35,000-ton battleship. Since they would, of course, completely overshadow
the 10,000-ton cruisers now building for all the major navies, their appear-
ance would introduce a novel and disturbing factor into calculations of
relative strength. For the present, however, the design remains in the paper
stage, from which it may never emerge. Ships of this type could hardly be
built for less than £4,500,000 apiece, and their value as a tactical or strategic
factor is entirely conjectural. Even without them, the revival of French
sea power is assured. When the building program now in hand has fully
matured, France will be in a position, if not absolutely to control the
Mediterranean, at least to deny the command of that sea to any rival fleet.
She may reckon with some confidence on her ability to safeguard the vital
lines of communication with northern Africa, which has become an indis-
pensable reservoir of manpower for her army, and the defense of her mari-
time frontiers will no longer cause her anxiety. A naval policy which
promises to yield such fruitful results cannot be adjudged extravagant or
unsound.
French Destroyer Trials
The Naval and Military Record, 23 September, 1925.—The destroyers
Tiger and Jaguar, of 2,400 tons, have both accomplished off Lorient highly
successful preliminary trials at 18, 20, and 32 knots, their Rateau turbines
developing more than the stipulated power and speed during their cruising
and two-third power tests. They are this week undergoing their final
official trials before hoisting the pennant for commission. Next month will
be the turn of the Leopard, completing at the Chantiers de la Loire (St.
Nazaire), which has already undergone successful stationary trials, her
Breguet turbines giving satisfaction. The Panthère (Lorient) is expected
to be ready at the end of October, the Chacal (Penhoet, St. Nazaire, that
has also Rateau turbines) is being pressed forward and ought to run her
trials next November. The Lynx, the last of the series, in hand at St.
Nazaire (Chantiers de la Loire), is only shipping her funnels and super-
structures, and is not likely to be ready before next year. She has on board
her Breguet turbines. It is to be noted that the six French super-destroyers
have only French turbines. This keen competition between French yards and
turbine makers lends additional interest to the forthcoming trials, which are
expected, besides, to demonstrate to the world that France possesses anew
the speed supremacy, the most important of all strategic assets.
Both French types of turbines, that are very different in shape, con-
ditions of working, and installation on board, have, of course, their respective
qualities, the Rateaus aiming at robustness and reliability and at simplicity
in the working and controlling, permitting easy supervision and repairing.
Up to the present, if anything, superiority has been on the side of the Rateau


  p. 2355 (#1319)                      

1925]
2355
Professional Notes
type for speed, fuel consumption, and returns for the indicated power. In
these respects the 450-ton Voltigeur, for instance, that had Rateaus, excelled
her sister ships Tirailleur (Breguets) and Chasseur (Parsons). In the
850-ton series the Breguets gave good results in the Cimeterre and Dague,
but in the matter of speed and reliability they did not quite come up to the
Parsons turbined Boulier and Casque (that exceeded 35 knots in 1913), and
Mehl, that was reputed for her speed endurance.
The turbine fight will be keener still in the torpilleurs d'escadre series.
These so-called 1,500-ton torpedo boats, thus modestly nicknamed "cats”
on the official lists, are in reality small "tigers,” equal or superior to British
flotilla leaders in armament and all-round power for mischief. In the
Italian fleet boats of the same size and power are proclaimed to be esploratori
leggeri (light scouts). Parsons turbines have here the lion share, these
being fitted in the Simoun, Sirocco (Penhoet), Bourrasque (Dunkerque),
Cyclône, and Mistral (Normand), Tempête (Nantes), and Tornade (Bor-
deaux), while Ovage Ouragan (Caen) have Rateau turbines, and the
Tramontane (Bordeaux) has Zoelly. It will be a stiff and interesting fight,
all the more so as the Parsons turbines fitted in those overgrown torpilleurs
are partly of British make and partly of French make. The Simoun and
Siocco, for instance, though constructed by the same firm (Penhoet), have
the former French-made Parsons, and the latter English-made Parsons.
Trials alone can decide as to quality, but, curiously enough, it has been re-
marked that English-made turbines, though outwardly rougher and lacking
in polished finish, turn more smoothly and noiselessly than French-made
turbines. Appearance is nothing. “The proof of the pudding is in the
eating."
The nominal motorpower of the 1,500-ton class of torpilleurs d'escadre
is 30,000 h.p., supplied by three boilers giving 210 tons of steam per hour,
against 35,000 h.p. for the 1,600-ton British Abdiels, and 30,000 h.p. for the
1,350-ton Viscount series of English destroyers; but, although trials have
not yet commenced, higher figures are being confidently announced: namely,
34,000 h.p. in the case of the Rateau-turbined boats and 36,000 h.p. in the
case of a few Parsons vessels. Boiler trials have shown that one fifth more
power may in practice be obtained above contract stipulations; in truth,
there is nothing exaggerated in 36,000 h.p. for 1,500-ton boats. It is only
right to say that robustness, speed endurance, and fighting capabilities were
the points aimed at in the French torpilleurs.
French Light Cruisers and Flotilla Leaders
The Naval and Military Record, 30 September, 1925.—The Paris Com-
mission des Essais, under Rear-Admiral Pugliesi-Conti, has arrived at
Lorient for the purpose of passing through their official trials the 2,400-ton
destroyers Tiger, built at Chantiers de Bretagne-Nantes, and Jaguar, re-
cently completed by the Lorient arsenal. Both these fine vessels have
Rateau turbines, and their preliminary trials have been successful. They
have their armament on board and are fully ready, and their wide shields,
much more conspicuous than in British destroyers, heavy gun-mountings,
and relatively big guns give an impression of cruiser-like strength. Impor-
tance attaches to these first trials of a totally new type of torpedo vessel,
as the data collected in the course of the forthcoming program of exhaustive
tests may serve to modify the designs of the 2,650-ton boats just ordered
at Caen and at Lorient. Similarly, the data gained in the 1,455-ton Simoun
will be used in the case of the four 1,500-ton boats on the point of being
ordered.
These eighteen 2,400-ton and 1,500-ton boats, if their speed capabilities
should come up to expectations, will be a good fighting investment and go
some way toward restoring France to a position of supremacy in that im-


  p. 2356 (#1320)                      

2356
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
portant class of flotilla units. No rival fleet, not even the British, com-
prises destroyers quite so powerful and fast at sea. Yet some divergence
of views prevails among Paris experts as to their relative merits; it is
agreed, especially among gunnery specialists, that a 1,500-ton Simoun,
carrying four 130-millimeter guns, shows for the money a superior return to
the 2,400-ton Chacal, that mounts five 130-millimeter weapons, and has the
same number (six) of 550-millimeter torpedoes (each weighing 1,600 kilos);
and it is contended it would have been wiser, for the same amount, to con-
struct three 1,500-ton units in lieu of two 2,400-tonners, especially as the
smaller vessels are, strange to note, rather superior to the larger ones in the
matter of habitability. The five boilers and Rateau turbines of the Chacal.
for instance, occupy forty meters longer space than the three boilers and
Parsons turbines of the Simoun, which means that the quarters reserved to
the crew in the last named vessel are longer by twenty meters, and this for
sixty men less than in the Chacal. The crew of the Simoun only includes
sixty-five ordinary seamen (matelots), but fifty quartier-maitres (petty
officers), twenty-four maîtres et second maitres, and seven officers. This
large number of warrant and petty officers, most of them long-service men,
provides the means to obviate, to a certain extent, the incredible instability
of crews that are perpetually being changed from one ship to another with-
out due consideration to the interests of efficiency.
What is the ideal destroyer gun? This question has not been settled by
the advent of the 130-millimeter gun, the tests of which have been successful
in the matter of range and accuracy, the power of the 5.5-inch gun (140-
millimeter) now in the service being exceeded, which means the new gun
would have a say at over 18,000 yards, all the more so as its shell with its
special caps has a weight of 80 pounds, with a good percentage of explosives
that renders it highly effective against lightly-built ships even at extreme
range. French shells are of superior quality ; war experience showed them
to be at least equal to the excellent projectiles of the Germans; and post-war
ammunition is in several respects superior to war projectiles-a result of
the strides chemical science made in recent years. So far so good, but
many gunnery experts consider the caliber of the new French destroyers
as being rather heavy and unnecessarily powerful and robust. In destroyer
actions, so fragile will be the target that it will not matter much whether
the hit is by a 5.1-inch or by a 4.7. Results in practice will be very much
the same, and what will tell will be the volume of fire and the number of
hits. Officers professing these views favor the armament of the Italian
Leones: namely, eight 4.7-inch weapons. Still, the teachings of the war.
and especially the Emden-Sydney and auxiliary cruiser duels, by no means
justify such contentions. Victory is the apanage of the bigger gun and of
the first blows, especially when speed is combined with caliber, notwith-
standing the fact that in the eyes of younger French officers the secret of
the undoing of the Germans at British hands was more in their systematic
running away than in the inferiority of their calibers.
GREAT BRITAIN
Navy Progress and Pacts
The Army-Navy and Air Force Gazette, 10 October, 1925.—The idea of
a second Washington Conference continues to be canvassed, but the project
seems no neare realization. It is often called a Bonrerence on Nayal Dis-
armament, but misarmament would be a better description to apply to some
of the objects which it is suggested the assembly, if it ever comes about,
should aim at. One suggestion is that submarines should be declared illegal
and entirely abolished. There would seem to be two strong reasons against
such a plan being agreed to. One is that the submarine is regarded as the
weapon of the weaker powers, and practically every nation in the world


  p. 2357 (#1321)                      

1925)
2357
Professional Notes
would need to be consulted about such a proposal. Even if all the nations
sent delegates to a conference, and each country had a vote, it is hardly
likely that the smaller powers would accept the view of the larger ones.
Nor are the latter in agreement on this matter, for when it was put forward
at the last Conference, France's opposition to the British proposal was
sufficient to prevent its adoption. Another point which is overlooked is that
the submarine is not only used for attacking ships, whether men-of-war
or merchantmen, but for purposes of defense, intelligence, and so on. The
wider its uses, the more is it favored by the powers, even though not always
for the same reason.
Another thing hoped for by some of the advocates of a new conference
is that a limit will be placed on the number of cruisers to be built, as well
as on their size and armament. This is by no means so easy as it sounds,
for Great Britain could not with safety consent to the cruisers needed for
the protection of her far-flung trade routes being limited to a ratio de-
termined by the strength of powers who are by no means so entirely depend-
ent upon ocean supplies. Relative strength in cruisers for commerce
protection is a different thing to comparisons of battleships. At one period
in the late war, forty allied cruisers were chasing one German raider. The
Washington Conference, too, has taught us that to limit tonnage does not
necessarily have the effect hoped for. The ingenuity of the naval architect
is at once exerted to obtain an extra gun, or an extra knot's speed, on the
standard displacement, and so the competition is merely diverted into another
channel. At the moment, far-reaching results are anticipated from the
vessel which Messrs. William Denny and Brothers are to build for Turbine
Steamers, Ltd., of Glasgow, in which the steam pressure will be double
that of any existing marine installation, the step forward being spoken of
by engineers as the greatest taken since the advent of the turbine. What-
ever may be thought of the matter politically, the proposals which have
been made for a new naval conference are not only untimely, but im-
practicable.
The New Battleships
By Sir Herbert Russell, The Naval and Military Record, 23 September,
1925.-The launch of the Nelson naturally served to attract public atten-
tion to the two new battleships, of which she is the first to take the water.
The spectators at the ceremony were left to gather as much about the
vessel as their eyes could tell them. Apart from the unfamiliar and alto-
gether symmetrical arrangement of her funnels and topworks an external
view at the present stage gives no criterion to the fighting value of the
ship. The Admiralty have confined details to the admission that the new
ships will displace 35,000 tons and are 702 feet long. Since no more battle-
ships can be laid down until 1931 by the only powers which are likely even
to think of perpetuating the capital ship, the reason for this official in-
scrutability is not very clear. It is certainly "according to custom," but
there are times when custom becomes merely ridiculous.
However, there it is, and beyond the particulars of tonnage and dimen-
sions, for which we have to thank official condescension, the rest of our
knowledge (if knowledge it can be called under the circumstances) regard-
ing these ships is pui. Neculative. Most of it, indeed, has come from the
United States. ,
I imagine it is quite reasonable to assume that the description of these two
vessels as "the most formidable fighting ships in the world" is justified.
This means that in hitting power, and the quality of resisting attack from
the sea-surface, from below, or from above, they are unequalled. Their
tactical mobility is very doubtful; if it proves true that they are only en-
gined for 21 knots (and since the United States can tell us this definitely,


  p. 2358 (#1322)                      

2358
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
it very likely is true), then they are inferior in this respect to anything built
since the Collingwood class.
But does this matter? I observe, with some surprise, an admission from
quarters whence I least expected it that these are probably the last battle-
ships that will ever be built. I observe, with some satisfaction, a résumé of
the self-same arguments I have ventured to put forward for a very con-
siderable time past as forming a reason for this conclusion. Certain didactic
writers are now laying down, with the finality of sage discovery, the very
points they were so emphatically controverting not more than a year ago.
Good luck to their sagacity-only they need not pretend to a monopoly in it!
The Nelson and the Rodney are, in fact, in a very literal sense the “last
words” of the material school. The material school argued that since the
Washington Conference allowed the United States to keep four post-Jut-
land capital ships, and Japan two, and that since we had only got the pre-
post-Jutland Hood—why, we must obviously have two more battleships
unless the 5-5-3 ratio was to be a farce. Apparently they did not realize
the possibility that it would become a farce in any case.
The material school carried its point, for the tactical school was still
musing hard, and had not made up its mind. The late Sir Percy Scott did
much to obscure clarity of thought upon this subject. His condemnation of
the battleship was on quite wrong lines—so wrong that in rebutting his con-
tentions, people forgot all about the right lines. In fact, without in the
least meaning it, he sidetracked the whole question until after the Nelson
and Rodney had been laid down and the material school had won.
Sir Percy Scott argued that the capital ship had been completely eclipsed
by the submarine and the aircraft, and that, simply on these grounds, she
was "no damned good.” Being incorrect, this contention could not prevail.
The capital ship is quite capable of very effectively taking her own part
against the submarine and the aircraft, and distinctly more so today than
she was during the war. The issue raised brought into being a very small
Percy Scott school and a very large anti-Percy Scott school. For some
time before his death the well-known Admiral had abandoned his crusade.
We need not question the perfect sincerity of his belief; the only point with
which I am concerned is the effect of the controversy upon the whole ques-
tion of the value of the battleship. By general agreement the battleship won
in this controversy, with the result that both professional and public opinion
was misled into the view that her war value was vindicated.
This is what I mean by sidetracking the essential point. Sir Percy Scott
was much too limited in his view, and, moreover, that view was a wrong
one. If, instead of taking the line that the capital ship is hopelessly out-
classed by the submarine and the aeroplane, he had raised the much broader
question of her tactical utility, I believe he would have carried a preponder-
ance of qualified opinion with him.
The Nelson and the Rodney are the most formidable sea weapons in the
world, but what are we going to do with these stupendous sledge hammers?
Send them into the Mediterranean on completion to join the lesser sledge
hammers. Both these vessels are essentially battleships. They do not
possess the high speed of the battle cruiser. They perpetuate the tradition
of the fleet action, and the necessity for the easily accessible base.
France and Italy still possess a few pre-war battleships, but they are not
maintaining these in regular commission. They have openly renounced the
intention of building any more battleships. At the Washington Conference
they reserved the right to use their ration of capital ship tonnage in such
form as might best suit their respective policies, in building, instead, cruisers,
destroyers, or submarines. Therefore, it is true to say that we are the only
naval power which now maintains a battle fleet in European waters. I take
it that there will be general agreement in the assertion that there is no
visible possibility of our employing that battle Aeet in European waters.


  p. 2359 (#1323)                      

1925)
2359
Professional Notes
Bluntly put, there is nothing for it to fight. Naval war with any European
power capable of going to war on the sea at all, would resolve itself into
purely defensive tactics on the part of the opponent, coupled with the em-
ployment of all available resources to attack our trade.
We might, and probably should, respond by attempting a close blockade.
Battleships are not a suitable type of warship for blockade service under
modern conditions, especially when there are no enemy battleships left to
blockade. The form of war I am visualizing would demand cruisers, de-
stroyers, and submarines in overwhelming numbers. It would be a form
of war without the possibility of a decisive fleet action; in fact, it would
be eminently a war of attrition. Battleships might, indeed, be used to bom-
bard enemy ports. I say "might," but I should certainly hesitate to say
"would.” Defensive tactics would foresee and provide against such an
obvious contingency. We never attempted to bombard the German ports,
not because the High Seas fleet lay within them: that fact would have been
a direct incentive to do so had it not been for other considerations which
combined to make it too risky a project altogether.
The "strategical zone" now lies in the Pacific, because it is in that ocean
that the only other two battle fleets of the world are concentrated. Ten
years hence Singapore will be completed, and then we can send our battle
fleet into the Pacific if we want to. It is true that we could send it to
Australia forthwith were there any necessity, but there is no naval repair-
ing base in Australia capable of dealing with battleship defects, and, stra-
tegically, a fleet based on any Australian port, or ports, would not be
favorably placed.
These two new battleships will have cost the nation between thirteen and
fourteen millions by the time they are finished. Of course, it is too late
now for regrets or reproaches, but do not let us be misled by heroic talk
about the magnificent addition to British sea power. These ships are a
legacy from the unreasoning progressive doctrine of the material school.
That doctrine was obscured by the mistaken controversy started by the late
Sir Percy Scott. The tactical school, not then clear as to the perspective of
the late war, did not raise its voice. It is raising is voice now, and the
material school is not pressing its answer.
To say that we were obliged to build these two ships so as to keep level
with the United States and Japan is one of those truths by which it is
often sought to justify a blunder. The Washington Conference proved
abortive of designed result because the politicians did most of the talking,
and the technical experts resented the idea of dictatorship altogether. If
the battleship is no longer of visible tactical value to ourselves, she is even
less so to the United States and Japan, which are faced with very wide
ocean distances in their every strategical outlook. I admit it is not a pleas-
ing prospect to any country to feel that a hundred million pounds' worth of
perfectly good warships have gone out of fashion, but the development of
war methods takes no account of the cost of weapons. In the Napoleonic
wars naval victories were won by fleets of the line. In the Great War the
fleets of the line only met once in four years, and then by accident. We
have been treated to a lot of academic talk about the decisive influence of
silent pressure, most of which is academic rubbish. War means fighting,
not glaring across a deserted ocean from behind boom defenses. Principles
remain, but methods change radically. In Nelson's day the ship-of-the-line
was built to fight the enemy, and was pretty sure to fight him, because he
was building a corresponding vessel for the purpose. Today the battleship
is built simply because the three great sea powers are all waiting, one for
the other, to cry halt! And since the United States is too busy debt col-
lecting to attend to the matter, we might very well call another naval con-
ference ourselves.


  p. 2360 (#1324)                      

2360
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
British Navy's Needs and the Mosul Issue
By Hector C. Bywater, The Baltimore Sun, 30 October, 1925.—London,
October 8.—Britain's firm stand against Turkey in the Mosul dispute is
widely attributed to her interest in the oil fields of that section. Foreign
critics ridicule the suggestion that her attitude is in any way dictated by
considerations of honor or sentiment. They make light of the Colonial
Secretary's reminder that Britain has solemnly pledged her protection to
the Arab populace of Irak, who would be exposed to the vindictive fury of
the Turk if that protection were withdrawn.
It is oil and oil alone that keeps the British in Irak, these critics declare,
and the pretense that any other motive weighs with them is sheer humbug.
French journalists, in particular, appear to know so much more about
the hidden mainsprings of British policy than British statesmen do them-
selves that it would be useless to argue with them on this question. It is,
however, a curious phenomenon that France (according to French writers)
should be the only country in the world whose foreign policy is free from
sordid aims.
The Paris newspapers discovered long ago that Britain was exploiting
her mandate in Irak for the purpose of consolidating her naval supremacy.
In lengthy articles they prove, to their own satisfaction, that the future
existence of British sea power is more or less dependent on the oil fields
of Mosul. If the Turks regained possession of that territory all the British
Admiralty's plans for building up a war reserve of oil fuel would fall to
the ground, and the very integrity of the empire would be threatened.
Echoes of this argument are heard even in the American press. It may
therefore be opportune to examine the matter from a naval point of view.
Since the British feet now consists almost exclusively of oil-burning
vessels, the provision of adequate oil supplies in war has become a problem
of capital importance. At one period of the World War the oil reserve be-
came dangerously low. It was the rule that this reserve should be sufficient
for five or six months, yet in the spring of 1917 there was barely enough oil
left to supply the fleet for eight weeks, and orders had to be issued forbid-
ding ships to steam at high speed except in cases of the utmost urgency.
For a few months the situation was extremely grave, for German sub-
marines were sinking tankers by the score. Eventually the crisis was over-
come by furnishing more destroyers for escort duty through the danger
zone, and by the expedient of bringing in oil in the double bottoms of
merchantmen coming from American ports.
This lesson has not been forgotten. In 1919 the British cabinet authorized
the creation of an Admiralty oil reserve at home, to be completed in 1929.
It was further decided to establish a series of fueling stations along the
main ocean routes, at points such as Sierra Leone, the Cape of Good Hope,
the Falkland Islands, Jamaica, Gibraltar, Malta, Hongkong, Rangoon, and
Singapore. Owing, however, to recent retrenchment in the navy budget,
this work is proceeding rather slowly, and it will be years before the scheme
is complete.
But it is one thing to create a chain of navy oil depots, stretching from
England to the farthest confines of the empire, and quite another to insure
that they shall be kept filled under all circumstances. Fundamentally the
problem is one of supply rather than distribution.
Let us suppose Great Britain had to fight a strong continental adversary
whose naval power was centered in the Mediterranean. Many strategists
are convinced that in such an event the British battle fleet would be driven
out of the Mediterranean by the swarms of mosquito craft let loose against
it. Be that as it may, it is certain that British ships would be in constant
peril of attack by submarine, torpedo boat, airplane, or cruiser, while voyag-
ing from Gibraltar to the Suez Canal or vice versa.


  p. 2361 (#1325)                      

1925)
2361
Professional Notes
Even for men-of-war the Mediterranean route would be highly dangerous;
for merchantmen it would be impossible. We have only to recall what
happened there during the late war to appreciate the truth of this proposi-
tion. At no time did Germany and Austria have more than eight or nine
submarines operating simultaneously in those waters, and to cope with these
marauders the Allies employed practically the entire naval strength of
France and Italy, supported by strong contingents of British and Japanese
patrol craft. Yet, to the very end of the struggle, the Mediterranean re-
mained unsafe, the losses suffered in that area being by far the heaviest
in proportion to the volume of shipping.
In the hypothetical war we are considering British merchantmen would
certainly be debarred from using the Mediterranean. This means that all
traffic to and from the East would have to be diverted to the Cape route.
Tankers bringing oil from the Persian Gulf to England would have a voyage
of some 11,500 miles, which could hardly be covered in less than six weeks.
If the British Navy had to depend on this precarious line of supply it would
be in a bad way, indeed.
In the circumstances pictured the oil wells of Irak would be a factor
of quite negligible importance. The navy would have to import most of
its oil from America, as it did in the last war.
If, on the other hand, Britain's next conflict is to be staged in the Far
East, the oil resources of Irak would naturally be of much greater value-
provided they were accessible and secure, which they would not be if Turkey
saw fit to make trouble. All things considered, however, the value of the
Mosul oil fields as a British naval asset in time of war is decidedly prob-
lematical.
The whole question of fuel supply is naturally one of paramount con-
cern to the British naval authorities. With the transition from coal to oil
the navy has become dependent upon outside sources for its very means of
movement. Ten years ago the major part of the fleet was still composed of
coal-burning ships. Today there are only five capital ships which use solid
fuel. As all the remaining vessels, from battleships to destroyers and sub-
marines, consume oil only, any failure in the supply would inevitably
paralyze the entire fleet.
For a protracted war the largest reserve that could be accumulated and
stored in time of peace would prove inadequate. It follows, therefore, that
the uninterrupted arrival of fresh supplies from abroad would be absolutely
vital to the maintenance of British sea power in a future conflict. Hence
the government's anxiety to develop every possible source of oil production,
both inside and outside the Empire.
We are, therefore, justified in concluding that the petroleum fields around
Mosul are responsible in some degree for the government's decision to hold
on to Irak, although, for the reasons outlined above, it is difficult to believe
that oil is the sole motive, or even the dominant motive, behind their policy
in that region.
The Airship Controversy
The Naval and Military Record, 30 September, 1925.—That the disaster
to the United States airship Shenandoah would result in a revival of the
airship controversy was inevitable. Thus far, however, we have come
across nothing new in the contributions to the familiar arguments. The
disciples of the dirigible are asking us not to infer too much from the loss
of the Shenandoah. They point out that she was a comparatively old craft,
that her design was not well suited to resisting any sudden stress, and that
this has been much improved upon in the latest examples. An attempt is


  p. 2362 (#1326)                      

2362
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
made to demonstrate that she should never have been caught in the dis-
astrous storm at all, and that had the meteorologists really known their
business she might easily have avoided it. Such an argument appeals to
us as the last ditch of defense. Although the course of big storm depres-
sions may be followed with reasonable accuracy, the atmosphere is always
liable to sudden local disturbances-particularly in cyclonic parallels—which
no degree of meteorological vigilance can forestall.
The mere admission that an airship must be shepherded by meteorologists
amounts to a confession of inherent defect. If it were not for the weather
she would be a perfect form of flying machine. But the “if" is such a
tremendous and insuperable one as to defy effective answer. What happened
in the case of the Shenandoah has happened before, and will happen again
so long as the airship remains in existence. It was not wholly on account
of their military vulnerability that the Germans withdrew their zeppelins.
One of the biggest airship raids over London ever planned ended in the total
destruction of half a dozen of these craft over various parts of France in
consequence of a sudden and unexpected northerly gale. One correspondent
states that although the zeppelins were not of much use for land operations,
they proved of the "utmost value" to the German Navy. It would be inter-
esting to know on what material evidence this opinion rests. Did airships
operating with the German fleet ever do anything which aeroplanes could
not have accomplished very much more effectively?
JAPAN
A Peace Protest from Tokyo
From the Japan Times and Mail (Tokyo English-language daily).
weekly edition, August 26.—The Living Age, 17 October, 1925.—The Great
Pacific War, by Hector Bywater, will be long discussed in all parts of the
world. It, in brief, depicts Japan and America at war in 1931 ; the war
lasts for two years and results in a. drawn fight. Japan, in the book, is
awarded the role of aggressor and picks a quarrel with the greatest, richest,
most powerful, and most advanced of the nations that are making their
imprint on the civilization of today. The whole thing is purely imaginary,
and in many an instance is utter nonsense.
For example, why should this empire fight at all? If she must, why pick
on the rich and powerful United States, which has friends all over the hem
of the Pacific Ocean? Why commit economic suicide right from the start
by quarreling with Japan's best customer? There are many other ridiculous
assumptions, but to deal with them all is impossible because of the limitations
of space.
This talk of an "inevitable" conflict between the Rising Sun and the Stars
and Stripes has been permitted too much latitude; and, strange to say, this
talk has come mostly from war-torn and semiprostrate Europe, suggesting,
it would seem, that the wish is father to the thought.
Three years or so ago, The Aeroplane, a British publication, had an
article by C. G. Grey, editor of that periodical, which contained the
following:
"In the light of Japan's equipping a great army and a great navy with
adequate flying services, it is necessary to consider how and where they are
likely to be used. The enemy is the United States and there is never any
difficulty in finding cause for war if the two nations are fated to fight.
"If a fight comes at all, it must come soon. The best opinion in Great
Britain places the date of a Japanese-American war at the beginning of
1924, for by then the Japanese war forces will be ready."
That year was selected because it was supposed to be a "fighting” year,
popular superstition making out that Japan was fated to fight in every


  p. 2363 (#1327)                      

1925]
2363
Professional Notes
year which contained the figure four. These self-important alarmist pub-
licists argued thus : Japan had a war in 1894; when 1904 came round she
was fighting again; then in 1914 she declared hostilities against the Central
Powers; so in 1924 she must again fight.
That year has passed; there was no fight of any sort, and the only talk
of war came from unthinking jingoes and half-baked publicists. Now the
latest date set by the great Hector Bywater is 1931. Perhaps the United
States and Japan are going to be hectored into a war by a fighter on paper
who, within the walls of a narrow newspaper office, sees, amid the dis-
coloring smoke emerging from a pipe that badly needs attention, visions
of gas, of planes, and of armadas churning the waters of the ocean into
fury and strewing the seas with the dead and the dying.
While Japan feels intensely the smart inflicted by America's recent im-
migration law, no one with any sense of reasoning or proportion thinks of
war. The East is not slow to learn, even if Europe is too old now to do
so; and while Europe, with her everlasting war mentality and barrack room
diplomacy, sees only the red of the battlefield and the "keen edge of the
sword"-Lord Birkenhead's very recent words—as the final arbitrament of
international disputes, neither Japan nor the United States cares to do so.
In April this year, Yusho Kumamoto, who had been in constant corre-
spondence with the late M. Camille Flammarion, famous French astronomer,
foretold "by the stars” that next year or the year after next some corner
of Asia Minor, probably Mesopotamia, will be the starting point of a war
that will ultimately engulf all Europe. To the man in the street, Kuma-
moto's forecast is much more probable than that of Bywater, and as one
reads the daily news, remembers the condition of Europe today and the
rivalries of the powers in the Near East, one feels that his prophecy is
far more probable than Bywater's.
There are the Mosul sore, the defiance of the Arabs, the desire of
Russia to press southward to the sea in that part of the world, the growing
distrust of the Balfour Zionist policy-to mention just a few of the acutest
sore points.
Count Michimasa Soyejima, not so very long ago, hinted that the next
war in the Far East would again see Japan engaged in a tussle with the
Russian Bear. These are all mere guesses, but these speculations command
far more respect than the devilish drivel of Hector Bywater.
Our contemporary, the Tokyo Nichi Nichi, is inclined to believe that
certain British publicists and politicians would actually rejoice if the United
States and Japan could be made to come to grips. We do not believe that
this is the considered opinion of the best minds of Japan or of Great Britain,
but we do think that a law prohibiting people from writing nonsense that
might possibly cause other nations to collide, and providing for corporal
chastisement if the law be violated, should be enacted.
Sowers of racial and international discord ought to be punished with the
utmost rigor, for these are the ones that are responsible for the organized
loot, murder, rapine, and moral and material degradation that follows wars,
after the bubble of "glory" has vanished.
Mr. Bywater is a well-known anti-Japanese writer. He suffers from a
distinct anti-Japanese bias. Let us remember that while we read the book.
Let us also remember that wars today are fought largely by the powers of
economics, not merely by that of force. The economic situation of the
world is such that a large scale war is sheer nonsense; much more so a war
between the United States and Japan, which would let loose, not only
national passions, but also race hatreds that would bring fearful reper-
cussions from Peking to Port Said, from Malakka to Mombasa, and from
Bombay to Bordeaux and Buenos Aires.


  p. 2364 (#1328)                      

2364
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
There will be no war between Japan and the United States either in 1931
or later, Bywaters and Morning Post Bathursts to the contrary notwith-
standing. These two countries, the greatest and the youngest on the
Pacific and the most advanced in the vanguard of present day civilization,
will set the world an example that sweet reasonableness is far better than
Birkenhead's "keen edge of the sword,” and can always be relied upon to
straighten the gnarled knots that every country at one time or another
experiences.
The attention of all Europe, and in a sense of the world, is now focused
on the efforts being made by Europe to struggle toward a better order of
living, and the Security Pact is regarded as the best method to reach that
goal considering the past history of Europe, her more recent history during
and since the Great War, and the hates that unfortunately teem in the
unhappy old world continent. When seriously examined, there does not
appear to be any compelling reason to think that the present effort will be
successful where previous ones have failed.
What the pact proposes to do is this. France is to be guaranteed abso-
lute security from German aggression, and, if Germany ever repeats her
performance of 1870 or 1914, Great Britain will be bound to go to France's
assistance. But Germany in her present state is absolutely powerless to
defend herself if attacked, let alone to invade the territories of the greatest
military power in Europe. So Britain, in the interests of peace, proposes
to guarantee the inviolability of the frontiers of Germany as well as those
of France. But will these arrangements permanently stop war in Europe?
Those who have considered the question carefully have little hope that
they will. Mr. Garvin, the well-known editor of the London Observer,
in a recent issue of his paper, comes to the conclusion that a pact concluded
now would be utterly valueless in a few years, owing to the development of
new forces in Europe and especially in Central Europe. The pact to be
concluded now proceeds on the assumption that Germany is disarmed, and
will be so forever. It is, however, impossible to keep any country in that
state forever. Mr. Garvin writes:
"For future purposes you cannot disarm the Germans unless you knock
out their brains. You cannot stop thought and research. You cannot pre-
vent them from making tremendous progress in civil aviation and gaining a
national faculty and aptitude which could be rapidly turned to war purposes
if their chance ever came. You cannot prevent them from knowing at
least as much about chemical warfare as any of the armed nations. If we
think out the probabilities of the next twenty years, we must recognize that
there is bound some day to exist again throughout Europe a tolerable equality
either of disarmament or rearmament."
In addition to the impossibility of securing the lasting disarmament of
Germany, there is the growth in her population. While the population of
Germany is increasing by leaps and bounds, that of France is stationary. In
another generation, Germany will have far greater man power than any
other European nation. Other causes of war are also present. The close
of the Great War saw the rise of a group of small states in eastern Europe,
known as the Little Entente. These states, armed to the teeth, are the close
allies of France, and are extremely suspicious of Germany on the one side
and of Russia on the other. They, even more than France, want to see
Germany disarmed and dismembered forever. They are against the pro-
posed union of the German population of Austria with that of Germany
proper. The movement for German consolidation is, however, very strong
and is alone sufficient, if unreasonably provoked by opposing nations, to be
the germ of a new war.
Mr. Garvin believes that the present pacts and alliances are all alike tem-
porary bridges. They will be superseded, he thinks, by larger and more


  p. 2365 (#1329)                      

1925)
2365
Professional Notes
solid things. "The League itself is as yet an inadequate and incomplete
structure," he writes, "and the full League of Nations will be achieved in
time to save Europe's future.”
The future this school of thought conceives, however, is unfortunately
only the future of Europe. Those who follow this line of thought are
anxious to consolidate the nations of Europe, because they feel certain, as
is shown by the implication of their words rather than by the direct words
themselves, that a trial of strength is bound to take place between the white
and the colored nations if things are allowed to drift in the manner which
European nations allowed before and after the Great War.
Thus it is obviously clear that the probabilities of war in Europe are far
greater than of a struggle between Japan and the United States. Bywater
would have done the continent in which he is fated to have his being a
service if he had written a book on The Next European War, pointing out
the festering sores, and enabling the peoples, if not the statesmen of Europe,
to take such measures as will avert the snuffing out of Europe if she again
forgets sense and sanity and butchers herself to pieces in a welter of fiery
hatred.
Mr. Garvin shows a comprehension of this wider aspect of the problem
of European peace when he says that "Asiatic changes by themselves may
well make it advisable for America to cooperate with the rest of white
civilization.”
But, in our opinion, no pact or league that aims at preserving only the
peace of Europe, or peace among the white nations of the world, can have
any value in preserving the real peace of the world. A real League of
Nations, if it is to achieve something substantial, must not only include the
peoples of Europe, or the stronger powers, but must be thoroughly repre-
sentative of all the peoples of the world.
America, Let's Reason Together
By Honorable Daikichiro Tagawa, from the Japan Times and Mail
(Tokyo English-language daily), weekly edition, 26 August, The Living
Age, 17 October, 1925.-[The author, who has held high official posts in
his country, is the leading Christian publicist of Japan.)
I regret for the sake of both Japan and the United States that I should
have to write this article. I do not, however, think that the consequences
of the Immigration Law so far as they have been manifested are very
profound or even grave. Commercially no serious consequences on the
whole have yet been produced by the legislation, as may be seen from the
fact that Japan's imports from the United States during the last seven
months of 1924, immediately following the enactment of that law, and
despite the recent imposition of a "luxury tax" discouraging the purchase
of foreign goods in our country, nevertheless amounted to $143,000,000, as
compared with $146,000,000 the previous year.
When the Immigration Law was enacted the Japanese people were said
to be seriously indignant, and a movement to boycott American goods was
started, but the boycott did not last long. Although later the government
imposed the 100 per cent tariff mentioned on luxuries, the imports of such
articles mainly from the United States did not decrease to any appreciable
extent as compared with the corresponding period in 1923.
These facts do not mean, however, that the Immigration Law has not
made a very unhappy impression upon the Japanese. I do not wish to say
that this impression cannot be overcome, but the truth is that the feeling
of Japan toward the Americans has certainly not improved. This statement
might be confirmed by much evidence, but it is only necessary to say that if
Japan were to consider any nation her enemy it would be the United States.


  p. 2366 (#1330)                      

2366
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
This does not mean at all that the Japanese are ready to fight the Americans ;
there are few reckless enthusiasts who would cry for war, but it does mean
that a sentiment is entertained among many Japanese that the United States
is the only country that might turn into an enemy.
This sentiment is due not only to the Immigration Law but also to other
causes. Among these I may mention the following:
1. The Monroe Doctrine.
2. America's withdrawal from the League of Nations.
3. America's attitude toward China.
American militarism.
5. The Gentlemen's Agreement, which Japan was compelled to make.
6. The Navy Limitation Conference.
7. The feeling that Christian ideals are not as prevalent in the United
States as they are represented to be.
My observation is that all these causes work together to make the
Japanese fear that the Americans cannot be relied upon. Even before the
enactment of the Immigration Law the Japanese had long felt that the
Americans could not be trusted, because they were not real lovers of peace,
but rather selfish and arbitrary, and this sentiment has been confirmed by
the law in question.
The Immigration Law was therefore not the only cause for this un-
fortunate change of sentiment. Had it been for that reason alone, the
Japanese would hardly have been driven to such hostile feelings as were
exhibited at the time of the passing of the law. In fact, these other causes
are responsible mainly for the present hostile sentiment entertained by the
Japanese toward the Americans.
I do not mean to say that all Japanese people understand clearly the
reasons for the above mentioned prejudices. The masses of the people
do not know what the Monroe Doctrine is, nor what is the character of
the League of Nations. On the whole very little attention is paid by most
Japanese to these questions, but they have some vague ideas about them.
They understand that the Monroe Doctrine is a policy peculiar to the
United States, aiming at domination over the South American states. This
may not be given expression in so many words, but this is what they think.
At the same time that the United States does not like any other country
to encroach upon what is supposed to be her own sphere of influence through
her capitalistic power, she is constantly watching other countries with an
eye of jealousy and suspicion.
The Japanese further understand that although the United States wants
to maintain such a policy over the South American states, at the same
time she is energetically extending her influence over the Far East and the
South Seas—that is to say, over China and the Philippines. If the Monroe
Doctrine be justifiable on account of geographical conditions, a similar
doctrine ought to be applicable to the Far East and the South Seas. Other
powers might not recognize such an application, but the United States at
least should. She does not, however, recognize a Monroe Doctrine for
China, an “Asia for the Asiatics," nor does she admit of a similar right
for the Philippines, but is trying to compete with all the other powers while
at the same time insisting that the Monroe Doctrine be respected for
America.
Many Japanese think that America's withdrawal from the League of
Nations is a conclusive evidence of her selfishness. The League was first
proposed by her own President, the late Mr. Wilson. Other powers at first
hesitated, but later joined him in appreciation of his noble ideal. They did
so, not because they themselves thoroughly understood the plan, but rather
because they thought that the United States was fully prepared to uphold


  p. 2367 (#1331)                      

1925)
2367
Professional Notes
and develop the League which had been proposed by her own President,
representing as they thought the nation. But quite unaccountably the
United States withdraw, and so they think that she is unreliable in inter-
national dealings. They therefore think that America is a nation that does
not respect international interests or obligations for mutual cooperation.
The Washington Conference was another instance. They think that the
United States did not propose such a conference for the peace of the
world, nor of the Pacific, but for the purpose of destroying Japan's influence
over China. She persuaded Great Britain to force a disadvantageous ratio
upon the Japanese navy. The Americans are always trying to injure
Japan's interests, and to prevent her. from increasing her national power.
Such is the prevailing sentiment among the Japanese public.
Later on, the Americans gave great assistance to Japan at the time of the
earthquake, but the favorable impressions made thereby upon the Japanese
people were largely lost by the passing of the Immigration Law with its
"exclusion clause."
I admit frankly that various misconceptions color the observations and
sentiments which we now see among the Japanese. They are ignorant of
the facts; they are not sufficiently careful. They often lack fair judgment
and sound understanding, but the real problem is, what is to be done about
it, and my answer is as follows:
1. I think that the Immigration Law which absolutely excludes the
Japanese ought to be revised at once. Even if the law is revised so as to
admit Japanese immigrants according to the same quota as the Europeans,
the number of such Japanese immigrants would be only 146 a year. Through
such a small number of Japanese immigrants, American civilization, morale,
and labor could suffer little harm. Moreover, such revision would have the
great advantage of showing the Japanese that they were treated in the
same way as Europeans, and so of mitigating their antipathy to America.
By such a revision the Americans would gain much and lose nothing.
2. I think also that the United States ought to revise her Naturalization
Law in such a manner as to give the Japanese the right to obtain American
citizenship. My own opinion is that the Naturalization Law affects the
relations between Japan and the United States more seriously than the
Immigration Law does. I sincerely hope that, by the simultaneous revision
of the Immigration and the Naturalization Laws, the Japanese who want to
live in the United States permanently will be enabled to enjoy an American
life and become truly loyal citizens of the United States. I think there
are a large number of Japanese now resident in the United States who
would apply for citizenship if the law were revised.
3. In addition to the revision of these laws, it is my opinion that the
United States ought to admit Chinese immigrants and also give them citizen-
ship. If the United States continues to exclude the Chinese and deny them
citizenship, even if she changes her policy regarding the Japanese I do not
think the Japanese will welcome the revision of the laws for themselves
alone. In my view the United States is not fair in giving a discriminative
treatment to a certain nation or race as such, and hence my belief that the
Chinese should have the same treatment as the Japanese when the laws are
revised.
I hope that the revision of the Immigration Law and the Naturalization
Law will be made at an early date. If that is done, Japanese-American
relations will improve. At the same time we must remember that the
present sentiment which the Japanese have in regard to the Americans is
not exclusively due to the Immigration Law. Apart from the law in
question, the sentiment of respect and confidence among the Japanese toward
the Americans has been cooling down for many years. So long as this
attitude continues, the Japanese may find an opportunity to blame the


  p. 2368 (#1332)                      

2368
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Americans for something or other independently of the Immigration Law.
They will argue:
1. The United States withdrew from the League of Nations, which her
own representative had proposed.
2. The United States, in spite of her Monroe Doctrine, is extending her
influence over China and the Philippines.
3. The United States, while severely criticizing the European states
and Japan for their folly in keeping up expensive armaments, herself ex-
pends a great deal for her own armaments.
I might mention many other reasons, but these three alone will be suffi-
cient to show how inconsistent is the American national policy. The United
States is no longer considered a country of justice. Her policy is guided
by prejudice and self interest. The Americans do not care for the interests
of other nations or races, and their attitude is often unjust and arbitrary
Such is a common charge brought against the Americans, and I do not think
this criticism is peculiar to the Japanese, but rather that it is common among
the world public. Even I myself often find it extremely difficult to defend
the Americans against these charges. Such suspicion and censure against
the Americans are now widespread among the Japanese, and that sentiment
will inevitably find expression in action sooner or later. I had such appre-
hensions even before the enactment of the Immigration Law. Apart from
that legislation, international harmony between Japan and America has
long been strained.
The Japanese are rather simple-minded. When Commodore Perry first
knocked at the doors of the country for international intercourse, followed
by a host of Christian missionaries who preached justice and love, the
Japanese had no hesitation in believing that America was a nation of peace,
justice and love. This simple belief, however, has evidently been undermined
during the last sixty years by American actions quite at variance with these
noble ideals. The Americans, they say, have acted often in opposition to
peace, justice, and love, so that the Japanese who had placed unconditional
confidence in them have been sadly disappointed, not to say angered. The
remedy for these evils must be fundamental.
1. Some Japanese regard the United States as a Christian nation, but
American politics and diplomacy often depart from Christian principles and
doctrine.
2. Everyone admits that Christian justice and ideals are very noble and
elevated, but many Christians lack Christian character and superior per-
sonality. There is often a wide gap between words and deeds. The Ameri-
cans say that they are a Christian nation, but is there not danger of seeming
to imply by this that all Americans are Christians?
I sincerely hope that my American readers will listen with patience to
these frank words of counsel. While sending them this message, I, myself
a Japanese, examine myself carefully and speak to my fellow nationals as
follows:
1. I regret that Japan has sent so many emigrants ignorant of the
English language and American customs and thoughts. This was a very
great mistake, committed at the outset carelessly by the Japanese Government.
2. In case the Immigration Law is revised in such a manner as to admit
Japanese immigrants,—146, according to quota,-I think it necessary to
train Japanese properly before allowing them to go abroad. In the old days a
Japanese mother, when sending her daughter in marriage, used to teach
her that she should try to assimilate the traditional customs and manners
of the family she was to enter and should fully determine not to return
to her old home under any circumstances. Such ought to be the principle
to guide future emigrants.


  p. 2369 (#1333)                      

1925)
2369
Professional Notes
3. One might ask, did militarism originate in America to be followed by
Europe and Japan, or did it originate in Europe and Japan to be followed
by America ? I do not think it right to blame the United States alone for
her militarism. In this respect, also, the Japanese must take full respon-
sibility.
4. It cannot be doubted that the spirit and purpose of the Washington
Conference were genuine. As one result of that Conference, Japan has not
needed to increase her taxes, although neither has she reduced them. It is
foolish and shallow-minded of some Japanese to censure the United States
on account of the Washington Conference. I am extremely ashamed of
such Japanese.
5. In the fiscal year ending March, 1924, Japan decided upon a naval
budget for the construction of auxiliary warships, amounting to 368,860,000
yen, spread over a period of five years. Since the Washington Conference,
no other power which participated in it has made any such similar plan. I
sincerely regret that Japan alone should have violated the principle of the
Conference by such expansion of the navy.
6. I was very sorry that some representative Christians in Japan should
have advanced the view that American missionaries ought to go home, when
in the United States ever since the promulgation of the Immigration Law
the representatives of American Christians have consistently protested
against the law and exerted their best efforts for its revision. I was sorry
I could not stop the movement against the American missionaries.
Many Japanese, therefore, do believe that the Americans are an egoistic
nationalthough there are exceptions like former Ambassador Woods, and
numerous fair-minded and faithful Christian workers. As the Japanese
are equally egoistic, there is danger of collision between the two unless
they control and humble themselves. Such self-control will be necessary,
not only for the two countries, but also for the world at large. Japan
ought to be on her guard, and the United States, too, against egoism. For
this purpose the Christians in both countries ought to exert the utmost
efforts; the opportunity is unique in history.
The Japanese Christians are small in number as well as in influence.
Nor is the United States a Christian nation entirely. I think the relations
between the two countries will improve when Christians, both Japanese and
American, evangelize more widely among their own people and gain a
wider influence. Then the Immigration Law will lose its raison d'être as a
matter of course.
The Immigration Law may be considered to have produced one good
result if on its account the people in both countries recognize the need of
deeper introspection and of giving up egoistic prejudice; of manifesting a
true Christian spirit and of helping each other in the maintenance of peace
on the Pacific and in the world at large. The legislation in question will
then bring about good fruit instead of grave consequences. It will entirely
depend upon our own efforts whether the consequences will be bad or good.
I pray to God that He may help us to work toward this great ideal and to
accomplish what lies nearest to the heart of all sincere Christians in every
land-namely, the peace of the world.


  p. 2370 (#1334)                      

2370
(Dec.
V. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
UNITED STATES
VESSELS UNDER CONSTRUCTION, UNITED STATES NAVY-PROGRESS AS
OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1925.-Official Bulletin.
Type
Number and
Name
Contractor
Per cent of Completion
Oct. 1, 1925
Total 1 On Ship
Probable
date of
Comple-
tion
12, 15/26
| 114 1/26
1215/26
| 4/ 1/26
AIRPLANE CARRIERS
Lexington ...... Beth. SB Corp. (Fore River). I
Saraloga....... New York S.B. Corp........ 71.2 70.6
AUXILIARIES
Holland ....... | Puget Sound Navy Yard.... 77.5 74.8
SUBMARINES
S-47.......... Elect. Boat Co. (Quincy).... Comm. 9/16/25
FLEET SUBMARINES
V-2 (SF5)...... Portsmouth Navy Yd. Comm. 9/26/25
V-3 (SF6).....
Portsmouth Navy Yd..
86. 1 84.8
V-4 (SM1)..... Portsmouth Navy Yd..
16.6 L 14.6
V-5 (SC1).....
Portsmouth Navy Yd.
V-6 (SC2). .... Mare Island Navy Yd.
2/
4
1/26
1/27
1
.
Authorized but not under construction or contract-
Authorized by Act of August 29, 1916. No funds as yet provided.
Destroyers (12) Nos. 348-359.
Transport (i) No. 2.
Fleet Submarines (3) Nos. 169-171.
Neff Submarine (1) No. 108.
Authorized by Act of December 18, 1925. Funds have been provided by
the Act of March 4, 1925, for starting construction of two of the Light
Cruisers and all six Gunboats.
Light Cruisers (8) Nos. 24-31.
River Gunboats (6) Nos. 43-48.
The Air Board Personnel
Aviation, 5 October, 1925.—The newspapers have given a large amount
of space to hearings before the President's Air Board, but they have not
told the air people what they really want to know. The question that is
invariably asked is as to the possibility of this committee's report being
reactionary or whitewashing. If an observer at the hearings with the
point of view of airmen can be relied on, the work of the committee will
be neither.
Consider the personnel of the committee first. Eight are Republicans,
one Democrat. That fact precludes any severe cross examination of mem-
bers of the administration. But by the same reasoning, it puts on the
members the responsibility of framing an air policy for the government
which the President can recommend, the public approve, and Congress
accept. Of course, such an ideal outcome is not possible, as will be seen
from other facts concerning the committee. As a political move, made at
a time when the country was aghast at Colonel Mitchell's assaults on the
War and Navy Departments it has proved to be a great success. To Sec-
retary of War Davis will go the credit.


  p. 2371 (#1335)                      

1925]
2371
Professional Notes
Another very important point to be noted about the committee is that all
opinions appear to be represented. So set and diverse are these at first
glance, it would appear almost a hopeless task for the members ever to
agree on any program.
There is Dwight W. Morrow of J. P. Morgan and Company, a financier
who admits that his knowledge of aviation has been limited to what he has
read and heard. There is Judge Arthur C. Denison of Grand Rapids,
Michigan, who pleads guilty to no knowledge of aviation except what he has
acquired during the hearings.
Judge Denison at first was the man of mystery. His fellow-members
waxing confidential immediately prior to the opening hearing could not
understand why the President had named the Judge as a member of their
board. They learned the reason.
Judge Denison, according to members of his profession, possesses one
of the keenest legal minds on the Federal bench. On many occasions during
the inquiry he has been able to clear up a vague or technically involved reply
from a witness by putting a simple question, usually through Chairman
Morrow.
It is Morrow's position that has lent the hearings almost the same dignity
and atmosphere of importance that would have prevailed had the President
himself taken the chair. Morrow has been the chief executive's friend since
college days. That, coupled with his recognized ability and his financial
connections, has established the entire investigation as beyond the general
run of such hearings,
Senator Bingham is the only pilot on the board. He was a trained
civilian aviator before the war, became a colonel and organized the flying
training schools, then served in France, and came home to win his present
position as one of the political figures of the country. During the last
summer, the Senator flew on a tour of inspection of the military and naval
flying fields. On his return he called upon the President.
He is looked upon as a sort of special prosecutor, representing the chief
executive and the general public. The old generals and admirals recognize
in him their best informed opponent on the board. They have read his
vitriolic attacks against them in his book, An Explorer in the Air Service.
The majority of flying men accept his idea of creating air branches having
the same status as the Marine Corps.
Another aviation expert on the board is Howard Coffin, of Detroit, presi-
dent of the National Air Transport. It was Coffin who conducted the
industrial survey in 1916 which resulted in the formation of the Council
of National Defense. He has repeatedly devoted his time and parts of his
large personal fortune to the development of Federal aviation.
Coffin was the first president and principal supporter of the National
Aeronautic Association and has sponsored many attempts to put over avia-
tion in a practical manner. He is an enthusiastic exponent of air power
as the great national asset in war or peace.
While those two members of the board are looked upon as opposing the
present system in military and naval affairs, there are two other members
of the board whose presence cheers the advocates of the present policy-
Major General James G. Harbord, retired, and Rear Admiral Frank F.
Fletcher, retired.
General Harbord, now president of the Radio Corporation of America,
exhibits a kindly attitude toward the general staff and the military system
he understands so thoroughly. When Harbord was Assistant Chief of Staff
under General Pershing he investigated Mitchell and found him not to his
liking. The Harbord-Mitchell relations have developed into one of the
many personal feuds that are bobbing up in the course of the hearings.
Admiral Fletcher is a battleship man by training and experience. He is
considered one of the best officers ever retired from the service. He was one


  p. 2372 (#1336)                      

2372
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
of the relatively few rear admirals to win the post as commander of the
fleet. Therefore the Navy has a friend on the board whom it can trust to
preserve its interests.
Besides Chairman Morrow and Judge Denison three others may be
classified as neutrals—with reservations. Dr. William F. Durand is presi-
dent of the Society of Mechanical Engineers and a member of the National
Advisory Committee for Aeronautics composed of Army, Navy, and civilian
technical specialists.
The Air Service enthusiasts say that Dr. Durand has always been a
sincere believer in the big navy idea, which would place him with the
advocates of the present policy.
The same is true of the two Congressmen on the board. Representative
Carl Vinson of Georgia is a Democrat and a member of the House Naval
Affairs Committee. He was chosen so that he may guide his party col-
leagues when the findings of this board go before Congress for action. He
ranks as a thorough examiner into all questions affecting the national de-
fense. At times he betrays no little irritation at the implication of witnesses
that conditions might be better were Congress to appropriate more money.
Representative James S. Parker of Salem, New York, is chairman of the
House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce and one of the
Republican leaders. His committee will be called upon to pass on many of
the recommendations to be sumitted after the inquiry.
With this personnel, the Army and Navy will find that statements such
as have been made before congressional committees will not be acceptable.
General Hines discovered this the first day, when he was asked so many
questions that he could not answer without evasion, that his testimony was
generally considered a justification for some of the criticism that has been
made of the General Staff.
The Navy has, through the poor guidance of Secretary Wilbur, been
placed in a position that will be more difficult to maintain when verification
is asked of some of the statements made. Particularly is this true of
Admiral Strauss' attack on the British Air Force and his reports of the
British battleship Agamemnon. If someone does not challenge him it will
be surprising. The muzzling of Navy officers has been in sharp contrast
to the freedom of opinions expressed by the Army officers.
It must not be overlooked that the President's Air Board report will not
settle anything. It is merely to lay a foundation for the investigation of
the Army and Navy by Congress.
The Mitchell Plan
Aviation, 12 October, 1925.- What will the plan I propose cost and how
will it be created from what we have at the present time—in other words,
briefly, how will it be handled ?
Navy
The Air Service in the Navy can stay just the way it is. Its aeronautical
personnel, except those who desire to transfer to the Air Force, can stay
where they are. Their numbers, however, should be entirely regulated
by the number of airplanes that the Navy actually carries to sea and oper-
ates. In addition to this, there should be sufficient reserves both of per-
sonnel and equipment
On a war basis, for the airplane carriers, Saratoga and Lexington, an
estimate of 150 planes, 75 each, can be made. Added to this, 50 planes
might be carried by all other craft, or a total of 200 planes for the Navy.
With a 50 per cent reserve, the whole would amount to 300 planes. The
Navy should be made to show specifically what can be carried to sea on
seacraft, as a basis for their organization.


  p. 2373 (#1337)                      

1925]
2373
Professional Notes
All airships should be handled by the Air Force, carrying Army or Navy
observers when necessary. The whole airship question must be completely
overhauled and not rushed into quickly again without exact reasons for
their use and development, and then using and developing them for what is
provided.
Air Force Schools
All basic flying training and aerial combat instruction for naval aero-
nautical personnel should be conducted at Air Force Schools. When they
fight in the air, they should fight under Air Force regulations. Their
finishing training on the airplane carriers and other ships of the Navy
should be carried out by the Navy and in any manner the Navy desires.
In other words, it is distinctly up to the Navy itself to develop its aviation
for work on the high seas. The Congress would judge what kind and how
many airplanes, battleships, or other vessels are required for the Navy in
the general National Defense scheme.
The amount of aeronautical personnel necessary for these purposes would
be about 10 officers in naval headquarters at Washington; about 230 flying
officers and about 200 observers and about 10 non-navigating personnel
for every airplane, or about 2,000 men. There should be a reserve not on
duty of about 50 per cent for the pilots and 50 per cent for the ground men.
This, it would seem, is the maximum that our Navy will need, under any
ordinary conditions for work at sea, according to the present system. War
casualties in Naval aviation will not be high because they will not be
engaged in constant combats with the enemy in an air war. They will only
be in combat when hostile fleets come together, which in fact may be never,
and if they do come together and the airplane carriers are sunk, there is
no further use for them until other airplane carriers are obtained. In time
of peace all naval air units should be at 50 per cent strength.
Satisfying the Navy
This system gives the Navy no field for objections whatever, as they
would have as part of their own organization all aircraft that go to sea
in ships; on the other hand, it would stop the Navy from trying to create
a land air service, which is not only no business of theirs, but is directly
contrary to the spirit of the present law of the United States, which
specifies : "All aircraft not attached to fleets but operating from land bases
should be handled by the Army" or words to that effect. This, under the
program suggested, could be changed to the Air Force instead of the Army,
except for the Air Service which forms a part of the Army.
Army
The Army needs a certain Air Service for what might be termed its
domestic economy-that is, for reconnoitering the ground in front of it,
for regulating and adjusting the fire of its missile throwing weapons, such
as cannon, howitzers, mortars, and other firearms, and for maintaining
liaison or keeping communication between its parts when all other means
have failed.
An Air Unit for the Army
Let the Army determine just how many of these units they need and
where they need them, then take the money for them out of their own appro-
priation, get their airplanes and equipment and use them. It will amount
to about seven squadrons in the United States, one in Hawaii, one in
Panama, and one in the Philippines. Based on about 20 airplanes to the
Squadron, this will make 200 airplanes; 50 per cent reserve would make
100 airplanes additional. There should be about 230 pilots and 230 ob-
servors for the Army and jo ground men to the airplane, making a total of


  p. 2374 (#1338)                      

2374
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
about 2,000 men. In time of peace all army air units in the United States
should be at 50 per cent strength, abroad at 100 per cent.
This contemplates that there be four complete modern infantry divisions
and one cavalry division in the United States. These divisions should
be distributed so that two of them would be available in the area Chicago-
Bangor, Maine-Chesapeake Bay; one in the middle states; one on the
Pacific Coast; one on the Mexican frontier, and one cavalry division on the
Mexican frontier.
The Harbor Defense Artillery could use one squadron on the Atlantic
and one on the Pacific. They could provide themselves with whatever
balloons they needed and operate them.
Air Force
The cadre or frame on which the Air Force in the United States should
be built should contemplate the use in a great war of a total of about
2,400 airplanes, two thirds of which should be pursuit and about one third
bombardment, in which some attack aviation is included. There should be
100 per cent reserves provided for.
This organization is necessary on account of what may be brought against
us in the future. This contemplates that one brigade of 600 ships will cover
the eastern part of the United States; one brigade of 600 ships will cover
the western part of the United States, and one air division of 1,200 ships will
be stationed so that it can be shifted either way or both ways and even to
our insular and outlying possessions instantly in case of necessity.
Supplementing this, there should be seventeen flights of six airplanes
each covering our Atlantic and Pacific Coasts. This gives a patrol and
surveillance element for every 200 miles. I wish that it be distinctly held
in mind that the stationing and distribution of air units in case of war
or even in peace does not involve the tremendous construction work that
is necessary for land forces or water forces. Fields for operations can be
prepared for occupancy within a few hours. Airplanes themselves in the
future will be constructed so that they need little or no shelter under service
conditions. The comparatively small number of men that handle them
can be easily housed and taken care of in an efficient manner. With a proper
system, unencumbered by useless red tape, the whole thing can be put into
operation with great rapidity.
Plans for Mobilization
To begin with, we can make a distribution of units in accordance with
what we have at the present time, pending the gradual development of the
plan, as follows:
In case of war, each of the following six groups would provide for the
formation of three additional groups, either at its own station or at other
points in the area assigned to it. This would make a total of twenty-four
groups, the number required for our Air Force of one division and two
separate brigades.
Langley Field, eventually to be moved near Philadelphia : 1-Bombard-
ment Group
Selfridge Field, near Detroit: 1-Pursuit Group.
Kelly Field, San Antonio, Texas, which draws on the area of Fort Worth,
Dallas, and Houston: 1-Attack Group.
Chanute Field, Champaign, Illinois, eventually to be placed near Chicago,
drawing on the Chicago area: 1-Bombardment Group.
Mather Field, Sacramento, California, drawing on the San Francisco
area and center of California : 1-Bombardment Group,


  p. 2375 (#1339)                      

1925)
2375
Professional Notes
Rockwell Field, San Diego, California, drawing on Los Angeles and
Southern California area: 1-Pursuit Group.
New York (Mitchel Field): 1–Local Defense Group.
Air Force in Insular Possessions
Panama-Provision for 100 planes for local defense. Peace time, 50
per cent strength.
Hawaiian Islands—300 planes Air Force, 100 local defense. Peace time,
50 per cent strength.
Philippine Islands—no Air Force units.
Alaska-in time of peace, 50 airplanes for development work, establishing
airways and studying aeronautical needs of the country.
Schools
Langley Field Operation School, for training staff and commanding
officers of Air Force units, for offensive work against hostile air forces,
against hostile sea craft and against hostile land targets.
San Antonio, Texas-Special schools of application for pursuit, attack,
and bombardment aviation, and for Air Force surveillance, observation and
photographic work. A Primary Flying School for the training of officers
from the Army and Navy and such Air Force officers as may be designated
to take the course. The bulk of the primary training should be carried out
at the stations of the major units.
The training of mechanics and inspectors should take place in factories
where engines and aircraft are built; in civil institutions and in the en-
gineering school maintained with the Engineering and Experimental Section
at Dayton, Ohio.
The Reserve
All reserve personnel should be attached permanently to some active
unit, and required to fly an average of about four hours a month and to
turn out for maneuvers with the units for a month's training each year.
All technical specialists carried on a staff basis not eligible to command,
of course are not included in this.
Supply organization should consist of depots in the same locations as
at present : Middletown, Pennsylvania, for the eastern part of the United
States; Fairfield, Ohio, for the central states; San Antonio, Texas, for
the Southwest; temporarily, San Diego for the Pacific—to be eventually
removed to Reno, Nevada, at a later date; at Dayton, Ohio—the Engineer-
ing and Experimental Section of the Air Force.
Now, how would this system work out?
Peace
In time of peace, the Secretary of Air could handle all matters direct
with the units, or, in case he saw fit, he could create another organization
to facilitate administration.
The active air units should handle the organization and training of all
combat personnel; the schools, the preparation of the personnel. The
supply units, the organization and training of all specialists and supply
personnel, the system for the production of aircraft and accessories, their
transportation, storage, and issue, and keeping up to date supply plans
to be used in case of a great emergency, all to be prescribed and co-
ordinated from the headquarters at Washington, D.C.
War
Strategical
In time of war, the Department of Air at Washington, D.C., should
be charged with the preparation, supply, and transportation to the tactical


  p. 2376 (#1340)                      

2376
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Air Force of all active Air Force elements, personnel, and material.
This organization should be permanent and fixed and be the matrix on
which the Air Force is built.
It should be divided into four territorial departments, as follows:
Eastern Department, Headquarters, Philadelphia; Central Department, Head-
quarters, Chicago; Western Department, Headquarters, Sacramento, Cali-
fornia; Southern Department, Headquarters, San Antonio, Texas.
Tactical
Air Force Tactical Headquarters—Beside the commander of the armed
forces of the United States and under him responsible for the tactical
cmployment of the Air Force and its use and coordination in any given
operations. There should be an intimate liaison between him and the De-
partment of the Air. This plan will positively eliminate every bad feature
that we had in the last war. Its only disturbing element would be in
a lack of appreciation by the Department of Air for the wants of the
Tactical Air Force. This, I am convinced, with officers trained in the
Air Force, will not exist in a great emergency.
Costs
Recapitulation
Peace
Planes
I 50
NAVY
ARMY .................
Officers Men
220 1,000
250 1.000
......................
.......................
150
470
2,000
1,200
6,000
1.000
8
|
500
500
Total Army and Navy .....
300
AIR FORCE
Units in United States ....
600
New York Local Defense Unit .
Airship Installations
Lakehurst
Scott Field .....
Schools
Langley Field .
San Antonio, Texas ....
Experimental Section, Dayton, Ohio
Supply Services ........
Insular Possessions
Panama Local Defense Unit ..
50
Hawaiian Islands
200
Alaska ..................................... 50
500
!!
50
2,000
1,000
6,000
250
....
50
200
100
500
2,000
500
............... 1,000
2,200
20,500
Total Air Force ....
GRAND TOTAL ......
.................... 1,300
2,670
22,500
Assuming that $2,500 per man be taken as the cost of the Air Force per
year, which is based on the estimate for the Lassiteer Army Project
now known as Project No. 4, (incidentally the War Department Project
is for 4,000 officers and 25,000 enlisted men) the total cost of the Military
Air Service would be about $63,500,000. Add to this, $500,000 for the
maintenance of the office of the Department of Air including the Under-
Secretary of Air and the assistant Secretary of Air. It would give us
about $64,000,000.
The Army estimate for Project No. 4 is about $75,000,000. I recommend
that the Curry Bill with modifications to meet the recommendations con-


  p. 2377 (#1341)                      

1925)
2377
Professional Notes
tained above be used as the basis for legislation for a Department of the Air.
Of the above, the Air Force itself in time of peace, exclusive of the
Army and Navy, would be composed of 1,000 service planes, 2,200 officers
and 20,500 men. These planes would be ready to take the offensive and
fight and are not mere auxiliaries of some other force or paper descriptions
of what planes might be. No numbers have been put down for training
planes, as the proportionate number of one plane for twenty men is covered
in the general estimate.
Now, let us take a look at what our entire national defense scheme
would be in case we put the general plan I have suggested into operation.
First, we would have a Secretary of National Defense, charged with
coordinating the Army, Navy, and Air Force: the Army, charged with
the defense of land areas; the Navy, charged with the defense of sea
areas; the Air Force, having jurisdiction over air areas. (The Army and
Navy would have with them, as a permanent part of their own organization,
the air services necessary for their own domestic use.)
These three forces, land, sea, and air, would balance each other, something
in the way our federal legislative and judicial departments do in our civil
government under the President. There could neither be a tie vote as
between the Army and Navy or an interlocking directory against aviation.
Influences of the Scheme
The Air Force would oppose any spreading out of naval activity on the
land and would keep pushing them out to sea. It would stand for the
cutting down of Navy yards, except where actually necessary for the
maintenance of our navies, whether they be surface or sub-surface. It
would stand for the cutting down of Coast Artillery except in important
places for the defense of cities that could be fired into. It would stand
for a reasonable development of anti-aircraft artillery and appurtenances
to be used as a part of the general scheme for defense against aircraft. It
would stand for having an adequate army, a mobile army, a well equipped,
and well appointed army, which would absolutely insure holding of all land
areas in which it operates.
Coordination of Services
To sum up its influence—it would be to insure the defensive integrity
of the United States as a self contained unit.
Our country dominates in its ability to create air forces, in comparison
with any other nation in the world. Both the Army and the Navy should
subscribe to this general scheme from a standpoint of service to the
country, and the benefit of all. If they did not, the Secretary of National
Defense would act as judge in any discussions arising between them and
coordinate the services. If this was impossible each branch could state its
case with equal freedom.
Each service should freely criticize the other in every way it sees fit,
but such criticism should be constructive, giving the reason for it and
their remedies. Under these conditions, there would be an accord in a
comparatively short time-certainly in the minds of the people as to the
best means of national defense for our country.
It would hold one man, the Secretary of National Defense, responsible
under the President for the national defense of the whole country and
under him, he could hold the under-secretaries definitely responsible for the
Army, Navy, and the Air.
The Aeronautical Crisis
The Scientific American, November, 1925.-It would be fatal error to
abandon lighter-than-air navigation because of the Shenandoah tragedy.


  p. 2378 (#1342)                      

2378
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
To do so would be to lose all the capital, technical knowledge, and work
which the Government, through the Navy, has already put into the airship,
and abandon the development of airship travel to other nations. This
would be to put the stigma of faint-heartedness and failure upon the
American people, who have ever prided themselves upon their initiative,
mechanical genius, and courage.
In the midst of the shock, bewilderment, and grief for the dead in the
Shenandoah disaster, the nation should preserve its self-control and patience
and await the results of the broad investigation of the very able commission,
appointed by the President, and await also the technical findings of the
naval experts, who are piecing together the experiences of the survivors
and gathering the valuable lessons which can be learned from a study of
the wreck of the ship itself.
We believe that apart from its value as a naval scout, which has yet
to be fully determined, the airship has an assured future for transatlantic
and other transoceanic travel. For such service it must be built of even
greater dimensions than before. The bigger the ship, the greater, relatively,
is the amount of weight that can be spared for the hull structure. Hence,
it follows that the big ship is relatively stronger, and better able to resist
those bending and twisting stresses which broke the Shenandoah into
three separate parts. Furthermore, if the risks of inflammable hydrogen
can, by careful and preventive design, be eliminated, and both the Germans
and the British claim that they can (the British, indeed, are now building
two hydrogen-filled ships of more than double the size of the Shenandoah)
there will be from 7 to 10 per cent more lift obtained from a given volume
of gas. Here, also, there would be more weight available for insuring the
strength of the hull structure. Indeed, we shall not be surprised if in-
vestigation shows that in a hydrogen-filled ship of 5,000,000 cubic feet
capacity, it is possible to provide a double hull and thus secure a great
increase of strength, such as is given to the merchant ship by its double
bottom and to the warship by its complete double hull below the waterline.
Furthermore, there is but little risk of encountering at sea destructive
vertical line storms of the kind that occur over the land. This fact, coupled
with greater strength of the larger ships of the future and the more
complete development of weather forecasting, makes the problem of ocean
airship travel fairly sure of solution in the not far distant future.
In the Los Angeles, our Navy Department possesses a ship well suited
for testing the commercial development of airships. She has made a
successful crossing of the Atlantic; she has sailed to Bermuda and anchored
for a whole day in a 40-mile gale to the mast of the Patoka and then re-
turned to her home port at Lakehurst. The Lakehurst hangar should be
continued in service and the Navy should be permitted to continue to make
experimental voyages for the gathering of data. Furthermore, our aero-
nautical officers, both those who design and those who fly the ships, should
be granted the necessary appropriations to enable them to embody the
structural lessons taught by the loss of the Shenandoah in a larger ship
designed as a scout and suitable for commercial travel across the Atlantic.
That such travel will come we do not doubt. America has, in abundance,
the necessary wealth to develop commercial airship navigation. The question
is, does she also possess the necessary courage and persistency?
Let us be fair to the airship. We did not cease to build long-span bridges
because the Quebec Bridge fell down; we did not countermand all orders
for large steamships when an iceberg ripped open the Titanic and sent her
to the bottom; nor did we cease to lay tracks and build locomotives because
of the frequent and tragic collisions in our early railroad history. So, in
the present case, we must above all things avoid panic legislation. It was
an accident of the weather and not a defect in the Shenandoah that caused
her collapse; it was another accident of the weather which prevented the


  p. 2379 (#1343)                      

1925]
2379
Professional Notes
PN-9 from reaching Honolulu. In the one case the ship, for the want
of full radio weather forecasts, ran right into a storm of which she had
no warning, a storm, furthermore, of the kind which the designers of the
ship had warned would probably destroy her—which it did. In the other
case, the favorable trade winds which were relied upon to help the PN-9
on her long trip simply petered out—a most unusual occurrence—and
instead of blowing with her, the winds, during the later part of the course,
were contrary, and by holding the ship back caused her to run out of fuel.
It was the weather, we repeat, and not any structural fault either in the
Shenandoah or the PN-9 that defeated them.
Let us keep our heads in this matter and not be misled by the latest out-
burst of Colonel Mitchell which may be regarded as an altogether insignifi-
cant incident in the great question of the future of American aviation. The
only feature in Colonel Mitchell's attitude that is not insignificant is his
glaring indiscretion and the shameless example of insubordination which,
as high ranking military officer, he has given to the country at the very
time when resistance to authority is a growing menace among the young
people of America. It is not Colonel Mitchell's silly outburst which has
caused the President to appoint a special commission. This was done
because the loss of the Shenandoah has rendered necessary a dispassionate
inquiry such as will now be made.
AVIATION
Pulitzer Trophy Race
Aviation, 19 October, 1925.-With the finish of the John L. Mitchell
race, the crowd, which had considerably grown during the earlier part of
the afternoon, waited expectantly for the Pulitzer Race, the great event
of the whole meet. The atmosphere was clearing and the clouds, which,
during the earlier part of the day, hung like a solid blanket over the sky,
had commenced to break up. This was a very fortunate thing, for a bad
haze would have proved a great obstacle in piloting the high speed planes
entered in the speed classic event. The race was scheduled to start at
3:00 P.M., but both the Army and the Navy Curtiss racers were wheeled out
to the starting line at least half an hour before that time.
The timers, apparently realizing the care with which these planes had
to be treated, were not strict as to the exact starting time of the race. The
two Curtiss racers were each equipped with high compression Curtiss type
V1400 engines, said to be as nearly alike in performance as it was possible
to secure. These were being given a final test while the planes stood at
the starting line, with a view also to warming them up for the race.
The four planes entered, in addition to the Curtiss racers, were two
Curtiss pursuits piloted by Lieutenants Cuddihy and Norton of the Navy,
and a PW8 and Pi piloted by Captain Cook and Lieutenant Dawson, re-
spectively. Owing to the entry of six planes, and the possibility of trouble
resulting from the hazard caused by the continual overtaking of the slower
planes by the racers, it was decided by the Race Committee to divide the
contest into two heats, and thus permit the two fastest planes to fly the
course unhindered.
At shortly after 3 P.M., the first plane took off. It was Lieutenant Al
Williams, Aying the Navy Curtiss racer. His exact time was 3:14:26. He
made a very smooth take-off and flew around the field for a few minutes
warming up his engine.
Shortly afterward, at 3:16:39, the Army plane took off, piloted by
Lieutenant Cyrus Bettis. By this time, Williams had decided to start of on
the course, and, accordingly, approached the field from a far corner and,
flying on full throttle, passed the timer's stand and the home pylon, being
checked off by Otis Porter, chief timer.


  p. 2380 (#1344)                      

2380
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
PULITZER TROPHY RACE
200 Kilometers-4 Laps. Winner's Time, 29 Min. 56.9 Sec.
Pilot
Plane
Motor
Ist Lt. Cyrus Bettis
Lt. A. J. Williams
2d Lt. L. H. Dawson
ist Lt. H. J. Norton
Capt. H. W. Cook
Lt. G. T. Cuddihy
* Dropped out.
Curtiss Racer Army
Curtiss Racer Navy
Curtiss Pi Army
Curtiss Pursuit Navy
Curtiss PW8 Army
Curtiss Pursuit Navy
Curtiss V1400 1600
Curtiss V1400 600
Curtiss Di2
Curtiss D12
Curtiss D12
Curtiss D12
Total Time
Lap Time
1. 2. 3. 4. 1. 2. 3. 4.
(147.8 248.6 248.7 248.975 247.8 249.4 248.7 249.97
243.7 242.9 242.4 241.695 243.7 242.I 241.4 243.66
170.3 170.1 169.9 169.9 / 170.3 170.0 169.5 169.8
169.3 169.1 167.2 168.8 169.3 168.9 163.4 173.8
167.0 165.5 167.2 167.4 167.0 167.3 167.4 167.8
165.2 165.5 165.3
165.2 165.8 165.0


  p. 2381 (#1345)                      

1925]
2381
Professional Notes
The spectators had been expecting a close and thrilling race between the
two Curtiss planes of which so much had been heard but were to be dis-
appointed on this account, for Williams and Bettis crossed the starting
line at such long intervals that all spirit of a race was entirely lost, the
two planes going around the course several miles apart. They flew at ap-
proximately 300 feet all the time. One very striking feature of the start
of each plane as it crossed the line was the absence of the customary dive
in an endeavor to gain excess speed. This, it will be recalled, was forbidden
in this race by the National Aeronautical Association after the Dayton
races last year, when steep diving over the starting line in the Pulitzer
race resulted in the collapse of Captain Burt Skeel's plane. Under the new
ruling this year the airplanes all approached the timer's stand in horizontal
Aight.
• Another very noticeable feature observed as the Curtiss racers passed over
the crowd on each lap was the considerable reduction in noise in this year's
planes, the propellers making far less noise than those of the PW8's. With
such high powered engines at the new Curtiss V 1400 and the high revolutions
at which these engines run, this silencing is quite an interesting achievement.
The first lap made by Bettis was in excess of the record general average
speed for this contest, which was 243.67 m.p.h. made at St. Louis in 1923.
Williams' speed was also greater than this average, though by only a small
margin.
The race, owing to the distance which separated the planes, had lost all
recognition as such and resolved itself into a straightforward speed trial.
As it progressed it was noticed that Bettis was beating his own speed at
each lap, whereas just the opposite was the case with Williams, whose
successive laps were getting slower with the exception of the last in which
his speed for that lap reached 243.66 m.p.h., or just under that for his first
lap. However, his total time for the course, as a whole, was still going
down, as will be seen from the table of speeds.
Lieutenant Bettis' speed at the end of three laps had reached 248.7 m.p.h.,
virtually assuring a new closed circuit record, while Williams' speed at
this lap was only 242.4 m.p.h. At the close of the race, four laps, Bettis
had reached 248.975 m.p.h. and Williams 241.695 m.p.h. Thus, not only did
Bettis win the Pulitzer Trophy for 1925, but, in doing so, he had set up a
new world's speed record for a closed circuit. On crossing the line in the
last lap, both took their planes high into the air and came around the out-
skirts of the field, landing and taxiing up to the enclosures.
At this moment, the four planes forming the second heat went off to
compete for third place in the race. There was far more of the element of
a race in the second heat, since the planes, a Pi and PW8 piloted by Lieu-
tenant Dawson and Captain Cook of the Army Air Service, and two Curtiss
pursuits flown by Lieutenants Norton and Cuddihy of the Navy, went off in
close succession and chased each other at close quarters during the entire
race.
As the planes started on their third lap, Dawson in the Pi, which was
faster than the others, was leading with Norton and Cuddihy following
closely and Cook coming up fourth. It was interesting to note that the
PW8's flown by Norton and Cuddihy were the same ones flown in the
Mitchell Trophy race earlier in the afternoon, but from the start they com-
menced making much better speed than in the earlier race. Lieutenant
Norton was piloting No. 50 at a speed 8 m.p.h. faster than the speed at
which Matthews won the Mitchell Trophy. This fact was undoubtedly due
to the difference in the length of the laps on the two races. The Mitchell
Trophy course was twelve miles around, as compared with the 31.07 miles
of the Pulitzer course. The former race, therefore, necessitated more and
sharper turns than in the latter race and the resultant speeds for the two
courses would differ accordingly.


  p. 2382 (#1346)                      

2382
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Lieutenant Dawson still maintained a good lead as the four pursuit planes
started on their final lap. He was followed by Norton while Cuddihy was
compelled, by engine trouble, to drop out. Captain Cook, by this time, was
at least a mile behind. The heat ended with Lieutenant Dawson finishing
first, Lieutenant Norton a close second, and Captain Cook coming in third,
a few seconds later. Lieutenant Dawson's speed was 169.9 mp.h., and
Lieutenant Norton, flying a Curtiss pursuit, made 168.8 m.p.h. The speed
differences resulting from the different lengths of the courses of the
Mitchell Trophy race and the Pulitzer race are apparent when it is recalled
that the same type of plane as that flown by Norton in the latter race made
only 161.5 m.p.h. in the former.
The somewhat disappointing speeds made by the new Curtiss racers,
in the Pulitzer Trophy race, may be attributed very largely to both the
shape of the course and the windy weather which prevailed. The haze
commenced to lift as the race drew to a conclusion and, as the two Curtiss
racers came up to the enclosures, the sun began to come out and afforded
a small army of photographers opportunity to get good pictures of the
victors.
Progress of Civil Aviation (British)
Engineering, 2 October, 1925.—The annual report on civil aviation, which
has just been issued, is of particular interest on this occasion, since it
covers the first year's working of Imperial Airways, Limited, formed, it
will be remembered, from four separate companies previously operating
aerial transport services between this country and the Continent. The
company, which is to receive a total government subsidy of $1,000,000 spread
over a period of ten years, undertook to fly a minimum of 1,000,000 miles
per annum, except in the first four years of its existence, during which the
minimum for any one year might be 800,000 miles, provided that a total of
4,000,000 miles have been flown at the end of the first four years. In
addition, the company undertook, as a minimum, to operate efficient trans-
port services between London and Paris, London and Brussels, London and
Amsterdam, and Southhampton and the Channel Islands.
Some delay occurred in opening the services in April, 1924, and the
Channel Islands service has only operated spasmodically throughout the
year covered by the report, but on the other services mentioned, with their
extensions, the total mileage flown during the year ended March 31, 1925,
amounted to 825,525, reaching a maximum of 146,820 miles in the single
month of July, 1924. The durability of British aircraft, and the care taken
in the matters of inspection and maintenance are well shown by the fact
that one Handley-Page machine and two of the De Havilland 34 type,
each completed 2,300 flying hours, representing a distance flown of 200,000
miles each, while three Napier-Lion engines each ran for an average period
of 1,350 hours. Altogether during the year, 4,677 machine flights were
made for transport purposes, and 890,000 machine-miles were flown, and
to these totals Imperial Airways, Limited, contributed 93 per cent in each
case, while of the 13,478 passengers carried, 98 per cent traveled in that
company's machines. The cargo transported by air during the year amounted
to 508 tons, all of which was carried by Imperial Airwave Limited. In
addition, 23,519 machine flights were made, 139,000 machune-miles flown,
and 43,766 passengers carried in other than transport flights, these flights
being made almost entirely for pleasure purposes.
Some idea of the present efficiency of aerial transport may be gained
from the statistics given in the report, which show that of 4,328 flights
commenced in the British subsidised air services during the year under
consideration, 4,064, or 94 per cent, were completed without interruption,
while 105 of the remainder, although interrupted, were completed on the
same day as commenced. In these flights, there were a total of 286 forced
.


  p. 2383 (#1347)                      

1925]
2383
Professional Notes
landings, of which 144 (50 per cent) were due to weather conditions, 96
(34 per cent) were caused by engine or installation failures, and 46 (16
per cent) were due to other causes. Only one fatal accident occurred
during the year, but this, unfortunately, resulted in the death of seven
passengers in addition to the pilot. It will be remembered that on December
24 last, a machine, after taking off from Croydon aerodrome and climbing
a few hundred feet, stalled and nose dived to the ground. Fire broke out
on the impact and all the occupants were killed. Three other accidents,
which did not result in personal injuries, occurred on the established air
routes, while eight more occurred in other classes of civil flying; in one
of these the pilot and passenger were injured. There were thus twelve
accidents in all, of which four were attributed to error of judgment on the
part of the pilot, two to defects in engine or installation, one to weather
conditions and three to other causes not specified. In addition, it may be
mentioned that two accidents to foreign aircraft occurred in this country
during the period covered by the report, both happening to French machines
employed on the cross-channel services. These two accidents were caused
by engine failure, but neither involved personal injuries to the occupants.
In conclusion, a brief reference may be made to the progress made in
the equipment of the London-Continental route for night flying, which
will certainly have to be carried out as soon as it can be done with safety,
if full advantage is to be taken of the aeroplane as a means of transport-
especially of mails. A considerable amount of experimental and test work
has been carried on during the year with this object in view. The emer-
gency landing grounds at Penshurst and Littlestone have been equipped
with automatic beacon lights, and the boundaries of these landing grounds,
and also the aerodromes at Croydon and Lympne, have been outlined with
automatic operated lights. In addition, improvements have been effected in
the arrangements for flood lighting the landing area at Croydon Aerodrome
in order to increase the space that can be utilized in night operations.
Fog still remains one of the chief hindrances of aerial navigation, but the
problem has been tackled by employing a captive balloon to obtain informa-
tion on the efficiency of various lighting units. A new type of beacon em-
ploying neon lamps has been installed at Croydon and has been found of
considerable assistance to pilots endeavoring to locate the aerodrome under
conditions of bad visibility. It is proposed, during the coming winter, to
attempt to produce a scheme for assisting navigation by making use of
the leader-cable principle in conjunction with neon vacuum tubes. In this
way it is hoped to enable aircraft to operate safely from aerodromes in
times of dense ground fog, provided that it is possible to see clearly when
Aying above the fog. Acoustical methods of assisting aircraft to land in
fog are also being studied, but have not yet arrived at the stage of practical
utility.
Anti-aircraft Defense
By Major J. C. Haw, C. A. C., The Coast Artillery Journal, October,
1925.-The term “Anti-aircraft Defense" comprehends all defensive meas-
ures against aerial attack. It is evident that aviation itself is infinitely the
most proficient a - important single component of this defense, for our
pursuit planes can seek out the enemy and attack him in his own element-
the air-on equal terms. However, the work of the Air Service must be
supplemented by purely ground formations. In the Civil War, the cavalry
of both sides made frequent raids in the enemy's rear; in the World War,
with the German Navy completely bottled up, we saw his submarines in
constant operation, while on the surface raider after raider went to sea and
terrorized the Allied Merchant Marine. As on land and sea, so in the air ;
no matter how numerous our planes or how efficient our aviators, it is
impossible to prevent a bold enemy from carrying out successful expeditions


  p. 2384 (#1348)                      

2384
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
over our territory. The delay in gathering a sufficient concentration to
meet air attacks in force may enable the enemy to reach his objective.
Further, the airplane is an offensive weapon, whose mission it is to seek
out and destroy the enemy in his territory. If the strength of the Air
Service is frittered away by scattering a great proportion of units here and
there for defense, we give up all hope of taking the initiative in the air.
However, it is necessary to assign a relatively small number of pursuit
planes to defensive work. These craft conduct constant patrols, and they
fight in the same manner as other pursuit aviation.
To defend troops, small isolated positions of importance, and large cities,
ground defense elements are necessary. Only small areas should be forced
to depend entirely on such elements, and for all large areas, pursuit
aviation and ground defense should be combined.
The protective components are divided into two classes-active and
passive. The passive elements are: kites and barrage balloons, camouflage,
searchlights, and the information service.
Large kites may carry metallic cables. Barrage balloons are small affairs
especially designed for forming a barrier of balloons. In the defense of
London, nets were used, three adjacent balloons being joined by wire cable
from which hung wires 350 yards long, with a sand bag at each end. The
balloons were about five hundred yards apart. Perhaps a more efficient
method is to place the balloons closer together and rely solely upon the
retaining cables. If two balloons are used together, one above the other,
an altitude of 11,500 feet may be attained. As an aviator cannot see the
wires, he will not attempt to fiy through the balloon barrage, but must
alter his course to right or left or climb above it. The effect is to diminish
the accuracy of bombing Balloon barrages are useful for small areas
only.
Camouflage is now tremendously important. At the front, every position
must be concealed from enemy aviators. Otherwise it is subject to accurate
artillery fire as well as bombing and aerial machine gun attack; while the
enemy's general plans of action are much more likely to be successful if
he has full knowledge of our dispositions.
In other cases, positions to the camouflaged are of two classes ; namely,
land marks and objectives. The aviator can fly by compass; but on long
journeys he is liable to need a reference point here and there to keep an
accurate course, and in all cases he must have a distinguishing landmark
at the point to be bombed.
Smoke may be used to camouflage small areas. If several patches of
smoke be generated simultaneously, the flyer does not know which one hides
the point he wishes to see. Flimsy scenery may be erected, in exact imita-
tion of structures located elsewhere.
Suppression of light is a most obvious measure of defense. Even at
night, a large city cannot be hidden, but if no lights are visible, then the
aviator cannot see it until he is almost upon it and must depend upon
compass and landmarks to reach it. When Paris was fully illuminated,
aviators at Villers-Cotteret could distinguish the glow, although the dis-
tance was approximately seventy-five kilometers. The lights in railway
yards are very conspicuous from overhead, unless carefully shielded, while
the glare from the opened door of a locomotive firebox is the aviator's
best indication of a railway line. In Paris, patrols were constantly alert
to enforce darkness, and necessary lights were made blue.
Sometimes "luminous camouflage" is used. High power lights with
reflectors are scattered about over the area containing the point to be
hidden, which is renderd invisible by the upward glare. This is obviously
a very expensive measure.
Also lights may be disposed at some suitable point in a conformation
that copies exactly some village or area with which the enemy is familiar,
so that he is deceived as to the true position.


  p. 2385 (#1349)                      

1925]
2385
Professional Notes
The British did a bit of camouflage that was almost a classic. To quote
the report of an American officer on this British dump which was located
near the front:
"Along the best line of approach, and at the usual distance from
the area actually to be defended, were placed three batteries of artillery
and three triangular lights. These guns and lights were poorly camouflaged,
so that when a high flying plane came over to photograph the dump they
would show in the pictures, and at the same time it would appear that the
British did not want them to show. Thus the enemy knew the relation
of these guns and lights to the location of the dump. However, about a
mile in advance, along the same line of approach, was the exact duplicate
of the same layout with the exception that this installation was perfectly
camouflaged. The result was that when an enemy plane came over at
night and these latter batteries and lights opened on him, he knew from
the study of the photo that very soon he must drop his bombs to hit the
dump. This he always did and the bombs therefore hit in advance of the
dump. Then before daylight the British would go out and fill in the bomb
holes and dig holes with the same relation to the inner defense that the
actual bomb holes had to the outer defense. It was in January, 1918,
that I saw this defense and it had operated successfully through the entire
war until that date without the ruse being discovered."
Searchlights are used to discover the enemy at night and keep him in
view of our guns on planes. They must be portable so that they can be
placed wherever necessary.
The standard type in our Army is the Cadillac unit. When the light
is in operation, the engine of the truck operates a generator mounted on
the truck, which in turn furnishes power to the light. The light itself is
of the open, or dishpan, type, sixty inches in diameter. It is mounted on a
very light carriage with Ford wheels, pushed by hand; a cable six hundred
feet long is provided for conveying the current from generator to light.
When a move is to be made the light is run up on the track, which thus
carries the entire unit. There is also a 30-inch light that can be placed in
trees, towers and similar points of vantage.
In addition to revealing the plane to our own forces, seachlights are
very confusing to the enemy pilot, for when the beam is upon him he can
see nothing of the ground or of other aircraft.
Evidently, it would be almost impossible for a searchlight to discover
a plane by searching at random, so listening apparatus is provided to de-
termine the direction of a plane by the sound of its engine. The problem
of following the exact course of a target by sound is no easy one, for by
the time the noise reaches the listener, the direction from which it appears
to come is no longer the true direction to the target. One reason for this
is that the plane moves some distance while the sound wave is traveling
to the listener; wind and other factors add to the difficulties encountered.
The underlying principle of practically all listening apparatus is the
detection of difference in phase of sound waves, the same principle that
enables men and animals to determine the direction of a sound. Sometimes
there are two receivers mounted on opposite ends of a rod that turns about
a pivot; tubes lead from each receiver to the listener's ears. There are
also single receiver types of parabolical or spherical shape. In either case,
the receiver collects and concentrates the sound; and the direction is read
off from the oriented "azimuth scale" (somewhat similar to the horizontal
limb of a transit). This direction is then set off on a similar scale on the
searchlight, and the target quickly located. Other types of apparatus are
more complicated but subject to various defects. The most accurate device
is said to be the Perrin Telesitemeter, with a mean error of only 0.13 of a
degree.
Now for the active elements of the anti-aircraft defense. The most
important-pursuit aviation-has been mentioned already. Machine guns
and anti-aircraft artillery complete the list.


  p. 2386 (#1350)                      

2386
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Anti-aircraft machine guns are used to prevent low-flying planes from
bombing and machine-gunning our positions. They are employed in the
defense of roads, trenches, strong points, artillery emplacements, anti-
aircraft guns and searchlights, and so on. The most promising machine
gun for anti-aircraft purposes seems to be the water-cooled Browning
.50-caliber, firing tracer or explosive bullets at the rate of 500 aimed shots
per minute. Its horizontal range is five miles vertical range, 8,000 to 12,000
feet.
There has just been developed another machine gun of 1.4 inches caliber,
firing explosive shell at the rate of 100 to 120 shots per minute, with a
vertical range of 14,000 feet. These shells burst on impact with the lightest
fabric.
As the targets fly low and at great speed, appear unexpectedly, and are
visible for very short periods of time, elaborate sighting is impossible, and
the only feasible way to get hits seems to be by using tracer bullets so that
their trajectory is visible.
A more complicated matter is that of anti-aircraft artillery. This class
of fire involves the greatest problems that have yet confronted the ballis-
tician, the ordnance designer, and the artilleryman. The target, whose
vulnerable parts often occupy less than two cubic yards, moves at a speed
of 80 to 200 miles per hour in three dimensions, and can change speed and
direction with startling rapidity. If the plane should travel at 180 miles
per hour and it should take the projectile 20 seconds to reach it, the gun
would have to be pointed one mile ahead of the target even if our methods
were absolutely perfect.
It is necessary to use high explosive shell or shrapnel, as these burst in
the air, endangering everything within a radius of approximately fifteen
yards. Their use entails fuse complications (mentioned later) but these
are outweighed by the gain in danger space.
The latest American gun (still in the experimental stage) is 4.7 inches
in caliber, with a muzzle velocity of 2,600 feet per second, firing a 45-
pound projectile to a vertical range of almost seven miles. With all-
round fire, elevation from minus 5° to plus 80°, automatic breech opener,
and pneumatic loading device, it is easily aimed and can be fired very
rapidly indeed. A 3-inch gun of similar model is also being tried out.
These guns are either self-propelled or towed by trucks or tractors, make
fast time on good roads, and can travel across country.
The chief ammunition difficulty has been in the fuse question. In
order to make the projectile burst at the exact instant desired, a very
accurate time fuse is a necessity. The extreme changes of air pressure
in anti-aircraft fire render powder-train fuses unreliable. One alternative
is clockwork. Imagine accurate clockwork that can withstand the shock
of discharge and the tremendous velocity of rotation of the projectile!
Such a fuse has been developed, however, and gives promise of con-
siderable accuracy. A fuse actuated by the rotation of the projectile has
also been proposed.
Several improved fuse setters have appeared of late, whose object is
to set the fuse on the very latest data, including an allowance or lead for
the time used up in setting the fuse, loading, and firing. These setters
work automatically, eliminating the errors caused by waiting for an opera-
tor to receive data and set it on the fuse-setter. Some of them work by
electricity.
However, the most intricate and perplexing difficulties are encountered
in the realm of fire control—that is, the determination of the data to be
set upon the guns in order to hit the target.
All fire at moving targets is a matter of prediction. The exact posi-
tions of the target at two or more given instants are determined ; upon this
information it is predicted that the target will arrive at a certain point at a


  p. 2387 (#1351)                      

1925)
2387
Professional Notes
certain instant in the future, and the shot is fired at this imaginary point.
The shorter the time occupied by the personnel in getting this data and
firing and by the projectile in reaching its destination, the closer the pre-
dicted point to the last known point, and hence the greater chance that the
target will actually reach the predicted point at the expected instant, instead
of changing direction, altitude, or speed. The time element becomes of
incalculable importance when the target travels from one and one-third to
three and one-third miles per minute.
To determine the position of a target at any instant, it is necessary to
know: (1) its direction from the battery, (2) its range (straight line froni
battery to target), (3) its altitude. In our service, these data are generally
determined by using instruments at both ends of a measured base line.
Obviously, it would be more satisfactory to eliminate one station and make
all the measurements from a single point near the guns. There are several
instruments for doing this, and when they are sufficiently developed, a single
station scheme will undoubtedly replace the present system.
The next step is the prediction of the future position of the target; and
finally, this data must be translated into terms of elevation, direction (or
sight setting), and fuse setting for the gunners. (The gun may be aimed
by the use of a telescopic sight or laid by an oriented scale and a quadrant,
in which case no sight is used.). All these very involved processes must be
performed in a few seconds—the fewer the better. Hence a great advantage
will be secured if a single machine can be made to perform these computa-
tions, which must be done almost instantaneously and as a continuous opera-
tion, so that there is a constant flow of data to keep up with the movements
of the target. Several such machines have been invented. Some of them
are purely mechanical, others depend upon the use of electricity, but none
have given full satisfaction. The ultimate aim is a single machine, operated
by one man, that will measure the position of the target, predict its future
position, and compute the firing data to set on the guns. Such a develop-
ment will increase tremendously the accuracy of fire.
The next consideration is the organization of anti-aircraft units. In
our Army, the basic group is the regiment, which consists of one artillery
battalion and one machine-gun battalion. The artillery battalion is com-
posed of three gun batteries of four guns each (total, 12 cannon) and one
searchlight battery of twelve lights. The anti-aircraft machine-gun battalion
consists of four companies of twelve machine guns apiece, a total of forty-
eight machine guns. There are sixty-three officers, one warrant officer and
1,450 men in an anti-aircraft regiment. To each army corps (about 83,850
men) is assigned one regiment of anti-aircraft artillery. To each army
(composed of two or more corps) is assigned one brigade of three regiments
of anti-aircraft artillery, in addition to the regiment with each corps.
Before considering the manner in which anti-aircraft elements are dis-
posed for defense, it is necessary to understand the mission of the defense.
This may be stated as follows:
(a) To prevent enemy aircraft flying at such heights over our positions
that they can observe and photograph, direct artillery fire, attack our bal-
loons, drop bombs with accuracy, or attack troops with machine guns.
(b) To prevent enemy aircraft dropping bombs on vital points behind
our lines.
(c) To compel enemy aircraft Aying in formation to lose their forma-
tion and thus render them more vulnerable to attack by our own airplanes.
Then we should know the kind of aircraft that we will be called upon to
oppose. This information is contained in the following table:


  p. 2388 (#1352)                      

2388
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Kind of Plane
Approximate | Speed-Miles
Altitude-feet Per Hour
Remarks
Pursuit
Reconnaissance
Very High
16,000
100-200
80—120
Day bombers
16,000
7,500
80—100
80—100
Night bombers
Purely fighters.
Photographic and
general observation.
Bombing close to their
own base.
Long distance bomb-
ing.
Machine-gun attack of
ground forces.
Long distance bomb-
ing, usually by night
Infantry or attack
Dirigibles
200—3,000
Very High
There are two cases of defense to be considered; namely, front lines
and back areas.
Front line defense is based on the anti-aircraft regiment. First, there is
the gun area. About 1,200 to 2,000 yards in rear of our front lines are
placed two rows of anti-aircraft machine guns, followed by two lines of
anti-aircraft artillery from 2,000 to 5,000 yards in rear of the infantry's
first line, each battery being accompanied by one searchlight. In rear of
the gun area comes the airplane area, extending about 25,000 yards to
the rear of the first line, provided with anti-aircraft searchlights and pa-
trolled and defended by our pursuit planes. Still further to the rear each
army is charged with the defense of all railheads, depots, parks, dumps, and
headquarters in its own area.
The civilian is naturally more interested in the defense of rear areas,
such as large cities. For such places, anti-aircraft artillery is disposed
along probable lines of approach, and also in one or more complete rings
around the area. The outer ring may be 25,000 yards from a great city,
while other batteries may be disposed within the city itself. Anti-aircraft
machine guns are placed at bridges, important factories, and so forth.
Searchlights and listening posts play an important part. Smoke screens
and painted scenery may be used. Pursuit squadrons are located at
suitable places.
All of these elements are linked up by an intricate network of wireless,
telegraph, and telephone communications, which also connect with observa-
tion and listening posts placed at intervals all the way to the theater of
operations. In future, this system may be supplemented by radio from
our own planes. Thus, when an enemy plane crosses our lines, the head-
quarters in rear are kept informed of its progress. At the anti-aircraft
defense headquarters in Paris, for example, everything centered in the
office of a general whose sole task was the command of the anti-aircraft
defense. A great map showed the location of every battery and airdrome,
and on this was traced the course of the invading planes. A light flashed
on for each unit as it went into action. Often the attack was defeated at
such a distance from the city that it was not necessary to sound the alarms
which sent citizens scurrying into cellars and subways.
So much for organization and tactics. As the difficulties of anti-air-
craft artillery and machine gun fire have been emphasized, let us pause for
a moment to examine into the actual accomplishments of these two ele-
ments. Since the vulnerable part of an airplane consists of less than two
cubic yards, relatively few direct hits can be expected. However, anti-
aircraft fire, if uncomfortably close to the pilot, forces him to change his
course or to fly considerably higher, and he is unable to photograph,
observe, bomb, or machine-gun ground formations with full efficiency.


  p. 2389 (#1353)                      

1925]
2389
Professional Notes
Moreover, if he changes course or altitude, he is liable to become sepa-
rated from the other planes in his unit, and is then easy prey for our
pursuit planes.
Many pursuit pilots forget that their own experience forms no fair
criterion, as the pursuit plane is the hardest to hit and, moreover, can do
the least damage to anything on the ground; while the primary mission
of anti-aircraft artillery and machine guns is to protect ground formations.
Our battalions in France made a splendid record, shooting down fifty-
nine planes; forty-one of these were shot down by two anti-aircraft
machine-gun battalions (total ninety-six guns) at an expenditure of 5,491
shots per plane brought down. The value of special training is shown by
the fact that during the same period there were about 1,500 other guns
of the same type along the front; these, not being manned by specially
trained personnel, brought down only two planes, as far as is known.
Our anti-aircraft artillery brought down eighteen planes at an expendi-
ture of 1,050 shots per plane.*
It is encouraging to compare these figures with the statistics of deaths
(not wounds) caused by artillery and rifle fire in terrestial combat. In
the World War, it took 395 Allied shells to kill one German. In the
Franco-Prussian War, it required 1,100 bullets to kill a man.
But the wartime records of anti-aircraft fire have since been surpassed
in the most astounding manner. In firings at Fort Monroe, where the
target was a sleeve 20 feet long and tapering from 4 feet to 21/2 feet in
diameter, towed by an airplane, the anti-aircraft machine gunners last
year made seventeen hits in 9,000 shots, or one hit for every 530 shots.
On a similar target, 6 feet shorter, the artillery made two hits out of
118 shots, or one hit for every 59 shots. Of course, the conditions were
more favorable than would be the case in war; but even so, the record is
truly remarkable. Great things may be expected when an improved fire
control system is developed.
At the same post, searchlights, working on information provided by a
paraboloid listening apparatus, were able to pick up Navy planes and Army
Martin bombers in less than twenty seconds after the lights began search-
ing.
Finally, to show the efficiency of a well-rounded defense system in
actual war, we may cite the statistics covering all night bombing raids on
Paris in the year of 1918. In this year, no less than 483 German planes
attacked the French capital; thirteen of these were shot down, and only
thirty-seven flew above the city itself, dropping a total of only 11,680
kilograms of bombs. Yet the Germans announced that 22,000 kilograms
fell on Paris in a single raid, the night of September 15-16.*
From the moment that he crossed his own lines, a German pilot was
harassed by searchlights, aircraft and artillery fire, until, discouraged, he
dropped out of his formation, released his bombs on the nearest village,
and sped for home.
If the coast artillery corps, operating anti-aircraft artillery, listening ap-
paratus, searchlights, machine guns, and the information service, and
assisted by the Air Service in patrol and pursuit work, can give as good
protection to American cities as the French gave to Paris, we shall have
reason to be proud; and if Congress will only give the Army men and
money in sufficient quantities, we can do it.
*These statistics were furnished the author by the Coast Artillery Jour-
nal, and were compiled from the records of the Chief of the Anti-aircraft
Service of the A. E. F.
*L'Illustration, March 22, 1919.


  p. 2390 (#1354)                      

2390
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
ENGINEERING
The Wing Rotor
The Shipbuilder, October, 1925.—Another form of wind motor utilizing
windpressure effects in a manner similar to the Flettner rotor has been
developed by Engineer-Captain Sigurd J. Savonius, of Helsingfors, Fin-
land, and designated the wing rotor. In the case of the Flettner design,
the rotor is cylindrical in section and is rotated by power supplied from
an external source. In the wing rotor, the section is formed by two half
cylinders disposed as shown in Fig. 3. By this arrangement, the inventor
states, rotary motion is produced by the wing rotor itself, as well as the
so-called Magnus-pressure effect, and no external source of power is
needed for operation. The design is the outcome of a long series of ex-
periments with models. From these experiments it was found that the
Magnus-pressure effect gave a propulsive force three times greater than
that of a sail of equal area, and it was therefore decided to test the wing
rotor on a small craft. For this purpose a small boat of 5 meters length
and 1.8 meters beam (Fig. 4) was fitted with two wing rotors made of
galvanized sheeting and having a projected area of 1.87 square meters
each. The rotors had a width of 67 centimeters and a height of 280 centi-
Fig. 3.-SECTION OF WING ROTOR
meters. The end plates were 88 centimeters in diameter. The wings were
pivoted on the end plates, and their position could thus be reversed.
The best point of sailing was found to be with the wind just abaſt the
beam. In a breeze of 7 meters per second (about 15 miles per hour) the
boat attained a speed of 5 knots. In a 10 meters per second wind the speed
averaged 6 knots, the two wing rotors developing a propulsive power
equal to 3-4 h.p. Tacking was accomplished by reversing the wings.
Going with the wind the rotors could be stopped, then acting as ordinary
sails.
The question whether the rotor will eventually find application for ship
propulsion must be left open, as the trials are only beginning. There
seem to be possibilities that the wing rotor can with advantage be used
on motorships as an additional source of power under favorable wind
conditions. When not in use, the wings of the rotors can be closed up, and
in this position offer very little resistance to the air when the ships is
inoving under motor power alone. Eventually, the wing rotor can be
lowered into a horizontal position.
Another way to use the wing rotor in a ship would be to utilize its
torsional power to drive cylinder rotors. A ship could, for instance,
have three rotors-a wing rotor amidships and cylindrical rotors in the
bow and stern. Besides supplying the power needed to turn the cylindrical


  p. 2391 (#1355)                      

1925)
2391
Professional Notes

Fig. 4.-Boat FITTED With Wing ROTORS
rotors, the Magnus force of the wing rotor would also add to the aggre-
gate driving power.
It is also possible to use a combination of a wing rotor and a cylindrical
rotor by having a smaller wing rotor directly on the top of the cylinder,
the former rotating the latter.
In comparison with the cylindrical rotor, it is claimed, the wing rotor
has two decided advantages. One is that it supplies its own rotating power,
needing no complicated and expensive power plant with motors, dynamos,
and wiring. Another is that wing rotor has quite an appreciable driv-
ing force even when sailing with the wind, and when the cylindrical rotor
has practically no effect. Against these advantages must be set the dis-
advantages of a greater size for equal power, and a more complicated
construction of the rotor proper.
The Position of British Marine Engineering*
The Engineer, 9 October, 1925.—Having in mind the condition of the
shipbuilding and engineering industry, I have decided to give a brief
running review of the present position, as compared with that immediately
preceding the Great War.
*From the presidential address to the Institution of Engineers and Ship-
builders in Scotland, October 6, 1925.


  p. 2392 (#1356)                      

2392
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Today there are about ninety-six shipyards in Britain, a number of
which have marine engine works associated with them. In thirty of
these yards there is not a single keel laid; in fifteen any work in hand is
rapidly nearing completion; while the remaining works are barely Oc-
cupied beyond one fourth of their capacity. The present serious condition
of the shipbuilding industry will be understood when it is known that the
number of building berths in this country today is 20 per cent more than
in the year preceding the war, and only 28 per cent of the berths are
occupied, while the percentage of unemployed workmen is between 30 and
40, which is really appalling.
The gross tonnage of merchant vessels building at the end of June last
in Great Britain and Ireland was about 1,100,000 as compared with 1,900,000
building during the twelve months preceding the war. In 1913 about
3,333,000 tons were launched, of which almost 2,000,000 were built in
Britain and her colonies, while the world's work in hand in June last was
slightly over 2,333,000 tons. Of this, 1,100,000 tons is being built in Great
Britain and Ireland. That is to say, in 1913 we built about 60 per cent
of the world's output, while at the present time we are building only 46
per cent. Our leading competitors, in order of tonnage building at the
end of June, were Germany, Italy, France, Holland, and the United States.
Various reasons are urged as accounting for the decline in home ship-
building and the increase abroad, such as rates of exchange, working hours,
subsidies, and working conditions generally. No doubt the general posi-
tion abroad is somewhat exceptional, and as these conditions tend toward
normal, the pendulum will swing back in our favor, but we are bound to
accept the conclusion that we cannot possibly regain the position in which
we were able to account for 60 per cent of the world's output.
An examination of the ownership of the world's tonnage today, as com-
pared with the ownership in 1914, will help us to realize this. The world's
tonnage in 1914 was 42,500,000 gross; today it is 58,750,000. The percen-
tage owned in Britain in 1914 was 44%2; today it is under 33. The United
States, which owned just over 4 per cent of the world's tonnage in 1914,
today owns about 20 per cent. The other leading countries, in order of
tonnage owned are Japan, France, Germany, Italy, Holland, and Norway.
Germany now owns 2,100,000 tons less than in 1914. During the year
ending in June last the tonnage owned has increased; in Great Britain
and Ireland by 330,000 tons, in Italy by about 200,000 tons, and in Norway
by about 166,000 tons. A considerable reduction is shown in the United
States tonnage owned, which is now over 500,000 tons less than a year ago.
When the abnormal conditions arising from the war disappear, these figures
will no doubt tend towards the proposition existing in 1914, but a complete
restoration cannot be expected.
Before passing from the question of the world's supply of tonnage, it
is interesting to look for a moment at the rate of depletion of the world's
merchant tonnage. Recently Lloyd's published a statement of the number
of vessels broken up, which is tabulated as under. It will be noted that
the figures vary to an enormous extent from year to year.
Years
Minimum tons
Maximum tons
1905-1909
..120,003
.........251,900
1915-1920 .............. 87,737 ..................245,891
1915-1920 ...... In these years practically no tonnage was broken
up, the yearly average amounting only to 10,000 tons.
1921
77,500 tons
1922
315,000 tons
1923
....... 963,000 tons
1924 ......
. 1,174,005 tons
The most recent returns show a decided falling off in the amount of
tonnage being broken up. I suggest that the shipbuilder and shipowner
1923
.............................


  p. 2393 (#1357)                      

1925]
2393
Professional Notes
should jointly consider, in their common interests, what is the best method
of disposing of old and inefficient tonnage. As time goes on it becomes
more apparent that we should take a more corporate view of this and other
cognate subjects. We act too much independently and unheedingly of one
another, to our mutual disadvantage. Could old and obsolescent ships not
be offered in part payment for new ships, instead of being sold to foreign
competitors for sums, in many cases, not much more than their scrap
value? Our position among the nations as owners and builders would
thus be conserved.
There is no doubt that to a large extent the tonnage owned by foreign
countries has been swollen by the acquistion of ships from this country
which were already more or less inefficient. They can, however, success-
fully compete with British ships, as their national requirements are not
so stringent as ours, and much lower wages are paid than in Britain. As
these obsolescent ships disappear, the balance can only be maintained by
the purchase of new tonnage. Our hope is that we shall be able to establish
our old position of the most economical shipbuilding and engineering coun-
try, as the conditions presently affecting the production of foreign tonnage
disappear.
The following statement of the employment of coal and oil fuel at the
present time, as compared with 1914, is also published by Lloyd's, and is
interesting:
1914
1925
Percentage of Percentage of
total gross total gross
tonnage. tonnage.
Sailing vessels and sea-going barges ........ 8.06
3.5
Oil, &c., in internal combustion engines ...... 0.45
4.2
Oil fuel for boilers .....
.... 2.65
27.54
Coal
....... 88.84
64.76
It will thus be seen that 6434 per cent of the tonnage of the merchant
marine now depends entirely upon coal, while in 1914 the percentage was
nearly 89, and the use of fuel oil has increased from 3.1 to 31.74 per cent.
These figures give an indication of what may be looked for in the next
decade in the use of oil. The tonnage of motor vessels now building in
the world amounts to 1,125,000, while the tonnage of steam vessels under
construction is 1,100,000, that is, the tonnage of motor driven vessels is
102 per cent of the steam-driven vessels. At the end of June last in
Great Britain and Ireland the tonnage of motor vessels amounted to 58
percent of the steam tonnage under construction. In Denmark, Germany,
Holland, Italy, and Sweden the motor tonnage under construction greatly
exceeds the steam tonnage, the combined totals for these five countries
being 250,000 tons of steamers, and 625,000 tons of motor ships. The
world's figures include 115 motor ships between 5,000 and 10,000 tons, five
between 10,000 and 15,000 tons, and seven between 15,000 and 25,000 tons.
The economic side of the Diesel oil engine has never been clearly
stated. Throughout the whole history of the motor ship it has apparently
been proved on paper that, since the amount of fuel required by a motor
ship is from one third to one fifth of that required by a coal-fired ship,
the savings can be nil, as the prices of coal and oil, at any rate in home
ports, are in the same proportion. These, after all, are facts which only
the shipowner can give, and it is to be again regretted that shipowners
generally do not act corporately with us and take a greater part in the
affairs of our Institution, giving to the constructors the benefit of their
actual commercial experience. The fact remains that on a great number
of our important trading routes the motor ship is today showing enormous
economies over steamers, and whilst shipowners will not put their cards
on the table yet, the mere fact of repeated and consistent construction of


  p. 2394 (#1358)                      

2394
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
this type of vessel is satisfying evidence. The explanation, no doubt, is
that with the motor ship contracts for oil fuel are obtained by shipowners
at a very much lower rate per ton than is published. The savings with
motor engines in reduced stand-by losses, much more economical working
of cargo, reduced cost of personnel, and increased deadweight, have a
very marked bearing on the balance sheet of the ship.
On the other hand, quadruple-expansion reciprocating engines with high
pressure steam, and the high superheat which can be safely used with
valve gear of the poppet type, associated with intensive preheating and
feed-water heating, is a proposition well worthy of study, in which there
may be great possibilities, such as shortening the engine-room length, and
reducing the fuel consumption by an amount greater than that achieved
by the turbine when it was first introduced
Thornycroft Shallow-Draught Ship for China
The Marine Engineer and Motorship Builder, October, 1925.-Trials
were successfully carried out at Southampton on Monday, September 7,
of the Fushun, a twin-screw shallowdraught cargo and passenger boat,
designed and built by John I. Thornycroft and Company Limited, to the
order of Fung Kan Yu, of Hongkong, for service on the Upper Yangste
River of China. Very special problems are involved in the construction
of a vessel to trade on this river. The stretch between Ichang and
Chungking, some 1,400 miles inland, involves extraordinary difficulties.
GO
THD
Domeng...E
OUTLINE PROFILE OF THE SHALLOW-DRAUGHT STEAMER “FUSHUN."
The fall of the river between these two places is no less than 476 feet in
the distance of 400 miles, or an average gradient of over 14 inches a mile.
Owing to this fall and also because the river is confined in narrow gorges
or ravines, there are some 35 rapids where the current will at times exceed
6 knots, and in the most difficult of these rapids the current may attain
the extraordinary rate of 13 knots. The rapids vary very greatly with the
height of the river, some improving and others getting worse with a fall
in level. This stretch of river would probably be labelled as unnavigable
were it not such an essential artery, and the one outlet for the trade of an
immense area, for the Yangste is to China what the Mississippi and the
Amazon and the Platte are to North and South America. So important is
the traffic on this great highway that before the war it was estimated that
some 10,000 junks were trading between Ichang and Chungking. These
junks are considered to do good business if they make two trips per annum.
The upstream journey may take three months while the downstream trip
will be accomplished in from six to twelve days. Moreover, a relatively
large crew is required, the bigger junks carrying over one hundred men.
Of these probably eighty will be landed at the rapids and these will "track"
or haul the junk upstream by immense tow ropes. The remainder will


  p. 2395 (#1359)                      

1925]
2395
Professional Notes
be employed in fending off from from rocks, and in working huge sweeps.
The first commercial vessel to ply unaided through the rapids was the
steamer Shu-Tung, built by Thornycroft in 1909. The success of this
vessel proved the possibility of regular services and opened the upper
river to steam navigation.
so SAN
STORE
HORNYCROFT
BOILER
U517 FAN ENGINE
W
18 & 326
STROKE
PUMP
FLCD
ENGINE
ROOM
STOKE HOLO
CONDENSER
ENGWEERS
STORE
AIR
UMP PM
VOCK
MACHINERY ARRANGEMENT
.................
High speed, shallow draught, and extreme handiness are essential fea-
tures for vessels of this type, while definite limits of length are set by
reason of the sharpness of some of the bends. In addition to the problems
imposed on builders by the physical characteristics of the river, there is
the question of providing a sufficient deadweight carrying capacity to enable
the vessel to trade profitably. The principal dimensions of the Fushun
are as follows:
Length overall ........
147 ft. 8 in.
Breadth, mld.
28 ft.
Depth, mld. ..
8 ft. 6 in.
Draught, mean F.W. .....
6 ft.
Deadweight ........
103 tons.
Deadweight on 5-ft. draught .......
210 tons.
Deadweight on 6-ſt. draught ......
23,000 cub. ft.
Measurement of cargo space about
43 officers and crew.
Complement .......
136 passengers.
Speed (oil loaded).
. 13.5 knots.
Speed (coal loaded) ....
13.5 knots.
The vessel is built of Siemens-Martin mild steel, and has a cut-away
fore-foot of a type suitable for working in the rapids of the river. The
stern protects the rudders, which pass up through the counter and are
suspended on glands with ball bearings. A pole mast is fitted to carry
headlights and for signalling purposes. The hull is divided into nine
compartments by means of eight transverse bulkheads, and a trimming
tank is placed forward of No. I hold. There are three decks, i.e., main deck,
passenger deck, and sun deck. The passenger deck is arranged for twenty-
four first and fifty-four second-class Chinese passengers, and the neces-
sary cooking arrangements and lavatories are arranged on this deck. The
vessel can also carry fifty-four third-class passengers. The accommodation
for four Europeans is arranged at the fore end of the sun deck, with a
mess room with dining table, portable chairs, sideboard, and so forth. The


  p. 2396 (#1360)                      

2396
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
chief compradore is accommodated in a room placed aft of the first-class
Chinese state rooms on the passenger deck, and a stewards' room is on
the opposite side. The first-class Chinese saloon is arranged in the for-
ward deck-house on the passenger deck, with five four-berth and two
two-berth first-class Chinese state rooms; aft of this are also arranged two
two-berth cabins alongside the engine casing for accommodating passengers
or the ship's staff, as may be required. Electric bells are fitted up in all
the first-class passengers' and officers' rooms and also in the saloons. A
second-class saloon is allocated aft of the engine-room casing, and eight
second-class four-berth state rooms arranged in the aft deck-house. The
cabins for the captain, chief engineer, and a bathroom are arranged at
the fore end of the sun deck. The holds are conveniently arranged for
cargo.
The Stability of Ships
The Shipbuilder, October, 1925.—The findings of recent courts of in-
quiry into the loss of certain ships and the recommendations made as to
the need for more stringent supervision of the stability of vessels, it may
be expected, will lead to the authorities in this country taking some action
in this direction. The German authorities have already provided further
safeguards in the new rules of the Seeberufsgenossenschaft. That stability
is a vital factor in the safety of ships equal in importance to reserve
buoyancy and strength, which have long been subject to definite regula-
tions with general advantage, is not open to question. A difference in the
case of stability has been and is that, unlike the other factors mentioned,
it is very difficult to devise methods of efficient control which would not
greatly hamper the practical operation of ships. This latter consideration
makes it incumbent upon the authorities to proceed with great caution in
framing any new regulations concerning stability, and to avoid any require-
ments which might result in serious delays and restrictions without any
real gain in safety. The tendency of late years to treat such problems on
academic rather than on practical lines makes this no idle warning.
A practical treatment of the subject appears to lie consecutively in three
main directions:
(a) The provision for each ship of complete stability data for the
guidance of the officers in control.
(b) The correlation of experience as to a suitable standard for stability.
(c) The practical means for ensuring that an agreed standard is com-
plied with.
The provision of stability information for ships' officers is a matter
which should receive much more attention than is often given to it. The
position of the center of gravity of the ship in light condition should be
determined by an inclining experiment when she is new, and after any
subsequent alterations. The centers of gravity of all cargo holds and
ballast tanks should be stated, in addition to the height of the metacenter
above the keel at different draughts, so that the captain may work out
the metacentric height for any desired condition, making due allowance for
any free surfaces of water or oil on board. Some typical calculations for
different loading will help him in this connection. The provision of the
information referred to does not entail any serious labor or expense, and the
Board of Trade examining authorities should see that the training of ships'
officers is such that they possess the elementary knowledge required to
make use of such data.
The dissemination of stability data will facilitate the next step, which is
to collect reliable information as to actual stability conditions on service, so
that the probabilities may be weighed and a reasonable standard deter-
mined. The task could be undertaken by an informal committee appointed
by the Board of Trade in a similar manner to that adopted in the cases


  p. 2397 (#1361)                      

1925)
2397
Professional Notes
of subdivision, freeboard, and other matters; or, alternatively, the work
could be undertaken by the Institution of Naval Architects or the leading
registration societies. The time and labor involved in compiling this data
would be considerable.
The last stage, that of enforcing the agreed standard, would also present
great difficulty. The only satisfactory procedure would appear to be the
actual demonstration, by some means analogous to the determination of
reserve buoyancy by freeboard, that the required metacentric height exists
apart from calculations, the latter only being used to determine changes
which will occur during a voyage through the consumption of fuel and for
other reasons. Such a demonstration could take the form of an inclining
experiment and Messrs. Alfred Holt and Company have stated in a letter
to the press that their new ships are being provided with tanks for this
purpose at a moderate expenditure. Another method has been suggested by
C. Frodsham Holt in his paper on “Stability and Seaworthiness” read
before the last meeting of the Institution of Naval Architects. Mr. Holt
proposes to use the ship's periods of oscillation as a criterion of the meta-
centric height, these previously having been calibrated by an inclining ex-
periment, and he states that his experiments in this direction have been
very promising. In the case of most ships, however, the conducting of an
inclining experiment or a rolling experiment under the stress of depar-
ture conditions would present great practical difficulty, both in regard to
obtaining reliable results and the delay involved.
Another suggestion which has been made is that the requirement should
be confined to a calculation showing a new vessel to have a required meta-
centric height when laden with homogeneous cargo occupying all the cargo
spaces and with the ship laden to the legal freeboard. While this might be
a convenient way way of evading the real issue, it would militate unfairly
against many highly successful types of ship, which are not designed to be
loaded in such a manner, and which have proved perfectly satisfactory as
regards stability when laden under the conditions for which they are de-
signed. Moreover, such a calculation would still not show the actual meta-
centric height with which a ship went to sea, and which through improper
loading might be worse even than the assumed condition with homogeneous
cargo.
Taking into account the difficulty of enforcing a standard, it may well be
that further procedure concerning stability practice should be confined to
the first two stages, i.e., the provision on board ship of full stability data,
and the formulation of a suitable standard for stability; the matter of
compliance being left to the judgment and control of the master. After
all, what may be termed the sea sense of efficient officers has proved a
satisfactory safeguard in the past in the great majority of cases; and
reliance upon some arbitrary procedure, rather than a cultivation of the
master's judgment, may do more harm than good. All these points of
view will have to be carefully considered before any definite action is taken.
MERCHANT MARINE
The Shipping Board and Admiral Palmer
The Nautical Gazette, 12 October, 1925.—If, perchance, there has been
any doubt as to the real value of the Shipping Board as an agency for the
development of an American merchant marine, that doubt has now been
dissipated. By its latest actions the Board has shown itself in its true
light. It stands revealed as a menace to American shipping. In re-
moving Admiral Palmer from the presidency of the Fleet Corporation it
has made him a victim of the personal jealousy and political spite of the
commissioners who opposed him. There are no justifiable grounds for
Admiral Palmer's removal. Commissioner Haney has offered three reasons


  p. 2398 (#1362)                      

2398
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
for his own opposition ; first, he considered Admiral Palmer incompetent
from temperament and lack of experience to carry out the provisions of
the Merchant Marine Act of 1920 ; second, Admiral Palmer seemed deter-
mined not to confer with the Board upon any of the questions which came
within its province; and, third, Admiral Palmer seemed disposed to proceed
along lines independent of the Board's action. Commissioner Thompson
also thinks that Admiral Palmer is incompetent. The emptiness of these
reasons is very apparent when one considers Admiral Palmer's record. He
has done more during his term of office to sell ships, save money and to
place the Government's fleet on a businesslike basis than was accomplished
by the Board in the years prior to his appointment. These proferred reasons
are merely superficial excuses to cover up the cause of the real antagonism
to Admiral Palmer. The Board is nothing if not political, and, from its
standpoint, the American merchant marine can fall to pieces as long as it
can play its own political game and the commissioners can retain their
jobs. In the eyes of the Board, Admiral Palmer had great failings and
committed one terrible sin: He was not a politician, cared nothing for
politics and devoted his whole attention to promoting the American merchant
marine. Of course, if he desired to remain in the good graces of the
Board he should not have worked on the shipping problems but played
politics. That was his failing. His sin was that he sold ships. Every
ship in the Government's feet is a link in the chain holding the com-
missioners to their jobs. When all the ships are sold there will be no
need for a Shipping Board and there will be no more jobs at salaries of
$12,000 a year. Admiral Palmer launched a ship sale campaign that
disposed of more vessels during his term of office than the Board sold
since the war. This rapid liquidation of the Government's fleet became a
menace to the existence of the Shipping Board and the commissioners had
to put a stop to it to protect their positions. Because President Palmer has
endeavored to carry out faithfully the terms of the Merchant Marine Act
of 1920 and has honestly tried to solve the Government's shipping problem
he is a dangerous man in the eyes of the Board and, therefore, has had to
be removed.
The commissioners selected the most favorable time to take this action.
President Coolidge was away from Washington, and Commissioners Hill
and Lissner, two of Admiral Palmer's supporters, were not in the city.
This was an opportune time for Commissioner Haney to present his
resolution calling for the acceptance of Admiral Palmer's resignation. Just
why Chairman O'Connor refused to vote on this resolution, but voted in
favor of the appointment of a new Fleet Corporation president is not clear,
Reports from Washington state that the commissioners were highly elated
over their ability to remove Admiral Palmer. And well they might be.
Commissioner Plummer made some slurring remark about the necessity
for hiring a bricklayer to build a wall and not a ladies' tailor. Such a
statement comes with exceedingly bad grace from any member of the
Board. Commissioner Haney's tenure of office is uncertain since, as he
is serving under a recess appointment, it is doubtful whether President
Coolidge will submit his name to Congress for confirmation. It is more
than likely that he will be relieved of his office after Congress meets and
it must be a source of some satisfaction to him to know that he has been
instrumental in effecting Admiral Palmer's removal. Admiral Palmer's
success in the management of the Government's ships, in the face of the
limited authority granted him and of the obstacles thrown in his way by
the Shipping Board, demonstrates clearly that a one-man control is
infinitely better than control by a board, and Congress will render definite
aid to the American merchant marine if it will abolish the Board completely
and place the Government's shipping affairs in the hands of one capable
man.


  p. 2399 (#1363)                      

1925)
2399
Professional Notes
Before the board removed Admiral Palmer it took good care to see that
the Fleet Corporation was deprived of all power of independent action in
the management of the ships. All the authority which the board had con-
ferred upon the corporation at the request of President Coolidge was
withdrawn, thus leaving the Fleet Corporation merely an agency of the
Board. It is clear, therefore, that the officials of the corporation will
have no say in the management of the Government's shipping affairs but
merely will be asked to carry out orders and institute policies of the
Board. Captain Elmer E. Crowley, the new head of the Fleet Corpora-
tion, is an experienced shipping man than whom there is none more capable.
He is a master mariner in sail and steam and knows the operating prob-
lems of American ships. He has held important executive positions in
shipping companies on shore and knows the administrative problems. In
matters of shipping, Captain Crowley is highly competent and if given a
fair chance could handle the Government's shipping affairs as well as
Admiral Palmer did. But, unfortunately, the Board will not give him
that opportunity. It has seen to it that he becomes the president of an
emasculated body which will be supposed to do nothing other than carry
out the board's wishes. As long as Captain Crowley does this he will have
smooth sailing, but the minute he attempts to inject some of his own
practical ideas into the scheme of things, tries to institute some policy,
which though beneficial, is contrary to the Board's wishes, or makes re-
commendations based upon sound business sense instead of on the Board's
desires, he will become persona non grata with the Board. As long as he
is willing to merely execute the Board's orders his relations with the
commissioners will be pleasant but the minute he does what his own good
business judgment and practical experience dictate he will go the way
Admiral Palmer has gone. This will be a great pity for there are few men
in the country who can handle the Government's shipping as efficiently
as Captain Crowley can.
It is generally admitted that the present Government fleet cannot last
for a great many more years and that if it is to remain an effective com-
petitor for world trade the old ships will have to be replaced by new and
more modern vessels. Commissioner Benson of the Shipping Board has
submitted to the Board a report recommending that the Government under-
take the construction of 30,000 tons of passenger vessels and 200,000 tons
of cargo vessels each year as a replacement program. His idea is that if the
existing fleets were to be improved by the addition of new vessels they could
be sold to private owners to better advantage. The great objection to this
plan is that it would result in the Government being more firmly intrenched
in the shipping industry and in the life of the Shipping Board being in-
definitely prolonged. The Government should withdraw from the shipping
business as soon as possible and nothing be undertaken that would delay
that withdrawal. There is no reason why ships and services should not be
sold in their present condition and the question of replacements be left to
the purchasers. The only argument against this procedure is that the
owners might not be in a financial position to construct new vessels and
that when the present fleets become obsolete there will be no tonnage to
take their place. This objection could be met by an arrangement whereby
the fleet would be sold in their present condition, thus getting them out
of the hands of the Government into private hands, and then when replace-
ments become necessary the Government would help the owners to finance
the construction of new vessels. The result would be the same as that
under Commissioner Benson's plan; new vessels would be added to the
American merchant marine for which the owners could pay out of the
earnings of the ships, and the fleets would be kept up to date.


  p. 2400 (#1364)                      

2400
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
Shipping Board Controversy
The Nautical Gazette, 17 October, 1925.-Observers outside the shipping
field see in the Shipping Board's definace of President Coolidge signs of a
political plot to embarrass the Administration. The Board has started an
economy campaign in the Fleet Corporation, cutting some salaries and refus-
ing to fill vacancies caused by resignations of Admiral Palmer's aides,
thereby hoping to create an impression that Admiral Palmer was ex-
travagant. This hits the President right on his own ground, and with
this action he cannot take issue. It is obvious, however, that this whole
procedure is mere camouflage on the part of the Board, for a few thou-
sand dollars lopped off salaries of personnel would be only a drop in the
bucket when compared with the Board's annual heavy financial losses.
The most effective economy must come from reduced operating costs, and
it was upon this phase that Admiral Palmer worked hardest. How well he
succeeded need not be stressed; some idea of his achievements in this
connection may be gathered from the fact that when he took office in
January of last year the Board's losses were in the neighborhood of
$40,000,000 per year, but for the fiscal year 1927 he estimated that an ap-
propriation of $18,000,000 would be all that would be necessary to cover
the Board's deficit. This estimate did not take into consideration two
routes which have been sold and five others which are being negotiated for.
With these services disposed of it was possible that Admiral Palmer could
have kept the deficit within $15,000,000. This matter of appropriation was
one of the rocks upon which the relations of the Board and Fleet Corpora-
tion finally split. While Admiral Palmer contended that $18,000,000 would
be sufficient to cover the deficit for the fiscal year 1927, the Board insisted
upon asking for an appropriation of $22,000,000, and Admiral Palmer's
refusal to recommend that figure was one of the reasons for his dismissal.
In view of these facts it is clear that the Board's present gesture towards
economy is nothing more than a move to cloud the real issues, and to conceal
its own shortcomings.Its talk of economizing by reducing salaries is an
attempt to discredit Admiral Palmer and to justify its action in removing
him from the presidency of the Fleet Corporation, but those who know the
true facts will not be deceived by such blundering methods, for it is well
known that during the twenty-one months he was in office Admiral Palmer
made a saving of $2,200,000 by cutting salaries which the Board had
authorized before he entered the arena and when it was exercising full
control over the Government's shipping.
Throughout the shipping depression the ships which have suffered least
are those belonging to industrial fleets. The tanker fleets belonging to the
large oil companies have kept running and the freighters belonging to and
carrying the products of the Steel Corporation have maintained their
schedules. A fleet of ships owned by and carrying the products of a large
industry does not have to rely so much upon outside shippers as does an
independent line of freighters; therefore, from the national standpoint,
it is a good thing for any merchant marine if large industries can be induced
to own and operate their own ships. For owners of independent services
the arrangement is harmful, as their ships are deprived of the opportunity
of carrying the products of the industry which owns its own ships. There
is an increasing tendency in the United States toward the creation of
industrial fleets. Henry Ford has recently entered the shipping business
by purchasing and operating freighters to carry his automobiles. This
week, according to advices from Washington, representatives of a com-
bination of automobile manufacturers, including the Dodge, Hudson, Chrvs-
ler, and Hupp, have opened negotiations with the Shipping Board looking
to the purchase of a fleet of from fifteen to twenty vessels to carry their
automobiles to foreign markets. If such powerful financial interests placed
a fleet of freighters on the ocean there is no doubt that the ships would be


  p. 2401 (#1365)                      

1925]
2401
Professional Notes
there to stay. This would mean that these companies would have to open
foreign agencies to solicit and secure freight for the return voyages and
this is the phase of the business which would cut deepest into the business
of the independent shipowners. There is, however, the consolation that
these ships would make formidable competitors of foreign vessels for the
world's trade.
MISCELLANEOUS
The Trade and Industry of Persia
Engineering, 25 September, 1925.—The recent announcement that a pow-
erful American group of banking and industrial interests are negotiating
to finance the construction of a railway from Tehran to the Persian Gulf,
in return for a concession of mineral rights, is a reminder of the present
singular position of Persian railways. Persia is a country about seven times
as large as the United Kingdom, and yet, as is fairly well known, it is still
practically without railways. Roads to a limited extent the country pos-
sesses, for its trade communications in every direction are ancient; but of
many of the roads little is left that is efficient, except the levying of tolls
upon travelers and traders. The system of roads is, in fact, entirely in-
adequate to the requirements of the country, and a large part of such roads
as exist are in the worst possible condition. Of all countries of economic
importance it seems to be the most deficient in means of transport.
Nevertheless the country itself not only possesses great natural riches,
but, as a recent report shows, does a considerable export and import trade,
and in some important respects is being administered admirably. It has called
in the help of American advisers in respect to its finances, and the reorgani-
zation effected with their assistance has been helped in practice by what is de-
scribed as a long-established and extremely efficient Belgian Customs Ad-
ministration. Customs duties yield over one third of the national revenue,
other indirect taxation one sixth, and royalties, paid by the Anglo-Persian
Oil Company, which work out at 16 per cent on the net value of its pro-
duction, a tenth. This company, moreover, spends in Persia four or five
times as much as it pays in royalties and supplies, in addition, a con-
siderable amount of products for use in the country, which would otherwise
have to be imported.
Since the introduction of the American financial advisers, the revenue has
invariably been in excess of the expenditure, and, moreover, while the
revenue has increased, the expenditure has decreased. The policy of cutting
the financial coat according to the cloth actually available is reflected also
in the latest statement of loans and advances issued by the Persian treasury
general in last October. The details are of no great interest, but in sub-
stance the effect of the statement is to show that the amount of the out-
standing debt is only about equal to six months of the country's present
revenue. Nearly two thirds of this is due to the British Government.
Trade, again, has grown steadily. It was of the value of some
£20,000,000 before the war, and in 1923-24 had risen to £32,000,000. This
rise, indeed, did not mean an increase in quantity, being more than repre-
sented by an increase in prices; but as against this, the exchange has steadily
improved, having risen from fifty-five krans to the pound before the war
to forty-nine and one-half in 1923, and an average of forty-two in 1925.
The balance of trade has also moved in favor of the couuntry. In round
figures the imports before the war exceeded the exports by some £4,000,000,
but in the first nine months of the financial year 1924-25, the exports ex-
ceeded the imports by about the same amount. The distribution of trade
has been changed considerably during the war, and does not yet appear to
have reached a stable position. Before the war 60 per cent of Persian trade
was done with Russia, and only 21 per cent with the British Empire, includ-


  p. 2402 (#1366)                      

2402
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
G
ing British India. In 1922-23 trade with Russia, which doubtless had
become almost negligible during the war period, stood at 10 per cent, while
that done with the British Empire .was 53 per cent, and, in 1923-24, trade
with the British Empire had increased to 57 per cent and with Russia to
18 per cent. Having regard to the considerable and beneficial influence that
has been exercised by the American financial advisers, it is interesting to
observe that Persian trade with the United States, which before the war
had been I per cent of the total figure, amounted to only 4 per cent in
1923-24, all but 5 per cent of which consisted of Persian exports.
The details given in the report under notice, while they confirm the
belief in the considerable possibilities of the Persian market, show ground
for some apprehension as to the extent to which its benefits will be en-
joyed by British trade. The total imports from the British Empire in
1923-24 amounted to something under £10,000,000, consisting chiefly of soft
goods. In these the competition of other countries is beginning to be felt,
and unfortunately as much may be said of the small trade that is being done
at present in metal manufactures. The total imports from the British
Empire of nails, screws, rivets, tubes, and so forth, was not much over
£200,000 and no British imports of other class of metal goods even amounted
to this. This figure, however, was considerably less than in the previous
year, owing to revived competition from Russia and Germany. The trade
in motor cars, such as it is, is almost entirely in the hands of the United
States, with a little from Italy.
The position, therefore, seems to be that Persia has set its house in order
so far as concerns its finances, that at present its international commerce is
in a stage that may be called rudimentary, compared with what might be
expected from the richness of the country, and that other countries are
showing more active anxiety than Great Britain, to get their share of such
business as is to be done. No doubt can be entertained but that the back-
wardness of Persian trade is due both primarily and mainly to the absence
of transport facilities. The cost of carriage of goods is fantastically high,
or at least, the rates would be fantastic if the difficulties to be overcome by
the carriers were not as great as they are. A correlative disadvantage,
which arises from insufficient means of communication, is that delivery
takes an inordinate time; and this is a circumstance that is the more detri-
mental to trade in a country where, as in Persia, the usual rate of interest
to firms of good standing in the bazaars is 12 per cent, and, from a mini-
mum of 7 per cent, may rise to an undefined maximum.
Primarily, therefore, the most likely opening in Persia for engineering
trade is in means of locomotion. The government program for the im-
provement of the roads involves an expenditure of more than £5,000,000,
in addition to the cost of maintaining the existing roads. Improved roads
will, of course, lead to increased demand for vehicles to deal with increased
trade. For a long time to come, however, Persia will have exceptional need
of road transport suitable to the hardest condition. The government ap-
pears to be anxious to facilitate the supply of vehicles, especially for indus-
trial traffic. The duty on motor cars and bicycles stands, indeed, at 15 per
cent ad valorem, but motor lorries are by a recent law admitted free. Persia
seems, therefore, as the report says, a virgin and rapidly expanding market
for cheap and strongly built cars and lorries with a considerable reserve
of engine power, a clearance of at least 10 inches, and (owing to the hump-
backed nature of culverts or local bridges, where such exist) not too long
a wheelbase. As in reports on other countries, great stress is laid on the
need for local agencies and depots for spare parts, which some American
and Italian manufacturers are already providing. Local garages will also
be required, for, except for Ford cars and a few other makes, the nearest
depots for spare parts are at Bagdad, Bombay, or even in Europe. The
Persian chauffeur is quick at learning, but generally a rough driver, while


  p. 2403 (#1367)                      

1925]
2403
Professional Notes
the owner seems to be attracted by what, over here, is best known as "spit
and polish."
Among other products likely to be in demand when communications im-
prove, are agricultural and textile machinery. The supply of charcoal,
which is the staple domestic fuel, is diminishing, and surveys of such sources
of water power as exist, with a view to hydro-electric development, are
suggested, as likely to have good results if satisfactory water supply can
be assured.
These recommendations appear to be based on the present course of trade.
What may be the extent to which trade will grow, when the country is pro-
vided with what without offense may be called a civilized transport system,
can hardly be predicted. About a fourth of the territory of Persia is richly
fertile, and a large proportion of the remainder is said to be of a light soil
that could be readily cultivated if it were only irrigated. The legal system
is slow, and commercial manners not well developed in all districts; but
here, again, the influence of improved communications could not fail to be
felt. It must be remembered, too, that though the people do not seem to
have any particular mechanical genius, they are the successors of an ancient
civilization, and at least elementary education is widely diffused throughout
the population.
Amphibian Operations
By Sir Herbert Russell, The Naval and Military Record, 30 September,
1925.-Now that fairly full accounts have come to hand in this country
regarding the Spanish landing at Alhucemas Bay, it is possible to study
both the strategical conception and the tactical development of this phase
of the campaign against the Riffs. It is the most interesting phase of the
operations, for, although the French offensive was on a bigger scale, this
was a purely military movement from a pre-existing line of advance. But at
Alhucemas the Spaniards had to gain a foothold against strong enemy
opposition, and the fact that they were heavily repulsed on the first attempt
is pretty clear evidence as to the nature of their task.
Certain of our newspapers have described this landing as the "Spanish
Gallipoli.” Without any desire to minimize the skill and valor of the Spanish
troops, I think the comparison is altogether extravagant. I do not know
Alhucemas Bay, but the photographs of the successful landing show it to
have been carried out across a very flat foreshore, sloping very easily up
from the surf and extending back beyond rifle range-how much beyond I
cannot say. I do know Gallipoli. The land all around Cape Helles con-
sists of bluff cliffs, with very small sandy beaches at their base. In many
places these bluffs are perfectly easy to climb, but they lend themselves most
effectively to defense. They are within easy range of artillery fire from
Kum Kale on the Asiatic shore. They can be dominated by batteries on
Achi Baba, to which the broken nature of the ground offers abundant con-
cealment. I have looked upon the small square shelter trench on the spot
at which the Essex men "scratched" themselves in at the top of their bloody
trail from where the River Clyde lay, and I could only marvel how they
ever got there.
But we may admit this similarity between the two landings; they were
both what is nowadays called “amphibian.” That is to say, warships cov-
ered the debarkation of the troops, thereby making the operations combined
undertakings by naval and military forces. The first covering attack by the
Spanish warships at Alhucemas failed to "smother" the enemy sufficiently
to enable the troops to maintain their foothold. The second, in which a
number of French ships took part, was more successful. I gather that the
character of the country hereabouts is very much more favorable to direct
fire than it was in Gallipoli. Moreover, the Allied warships had plenty


  p. 2404 (#1368)                      

2404
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
of spotting aircraft. Had we been able to loose-off a hundred airplanes
when the fleet opened its bombardment upon Cape Helles, the landing of the
Twenty-Ninth Division would have been a very different affair.
When the truth about that great heroic exploit began to be known-or
rather guessed at from the terrible magnitude of the casualty lists—there
was a good deal of criticism at the comparative inadequacy of the naval
support to the landing. Apparently the general impression was that a great
fleet should be able to so plaster a given coast defense with projectiles as to
render the debarkation of troops a comparatively simple matter. The war-
ships "did their damnedest" in this respect. Their concentrated fire prob-
ably amounted to the nearest approach to a hurricane barrage which that
stage of the war had yet produced—at any rate on our side.
But we had yet to learn how the conditions of warfare had changed since
the fleet had last covered military operations on a big scale. The bombard-
ment of fortresses in the Dardanelles during the attempt to force the Straits
a month earlier had proved tolerably successful. Immense destruction had
been wrought against large, visible, solid targets. But the direct fire from
the ships passed almost harmlessly over the honeycomb of machine-gun
nests on the Helles cliffs, and the hidden field guns ranging between Krithia
and Sed-el-Bah. When it was all over we could see the cause of failure.
We wanted howitzers for high-angle fire, and airplanes, both to spot for
the gun-layers and to bomb on top of the puffs of vapor belching forth
from vineyards and gullies.
Amphibian operations under modern conditions of warfare call for the
largest possible measure of aerial cooperation. The Queen Elizabeth blazing
away from her 15-inch guns at anything she could see, or thought she could
see, was a magnificent spectacle, but the results were not worth the cost of
the ammunition. I do not say that many men both in the Navy and the
Army had not visualized the possibilities of amphibian operations, but there
had never been any serious rehearsal. Some combined maneuvers were
carried out on the east coast a few years before the Great War. They
furnished some good films to kinematograph operators and some excellent
pictures to the illustrated papers, but of instructional value they possessed
about as much as the naval maneuvers of thirty years ago did in the way of
showing what was going to happen at Jutland.
The fact is it had long been a tradition that it is not the business of the
Navy to engage land fortifications. In the age of very limited ranges this
was undoubtedly true. Indifferently protected ships, with a fire delivery of
two or three miles, were likely to come off badly in a duel with massive
fortifications, but the extraordinary development of gun power has changed
all that. Massive fortifications are no longer built these days, because they
cannot resist high explosive. The fate of Liege demonstrated this.
The Germans taught us the value of high-elevation gun mountings for
plunging fire in naval actions, and today our ships are very much better
equipped to support a military landing than they were in 1915. Students of
war will probably regret that the long-talked-of and fully-rehearsed am-
phibian attack upon Ostend was never delivered. The idea, it will be re-
membered, was to try and land an immense number of tanks under cover
of a smashing bombardment by the Navy. It is, perhaps, idle to speculate
upon what never can be proven. Had the attempt come as a surprise it
might have succeeded. In this case the right flank of the German Army
would have been rolled up from the coast, and we should have had to keep
Ostend open as a port of communication, which, I rather suspect, would
have proved a costly business.
Coming back to the Alhucemas operation, one could form a better esti-
mate of the achievement if one knew the strength of the opposing forces
and the gun power and dispositions which had to be subdued. I am pre-
pared to believe that the Riffs fight as well as the Turks and that they are


  p. 2405 (#1369)                      

1925)
2405
Professional Notes
being quite as well led. But the Spanish forces had what we so totally
lacked in Gallipoli—an effective aerial reconnaissance. Even so, they were
forced to withdraw after their first landing. From this I am rather dis-
posed to infer that the airmen had not done their reconnoitering very thor-
oughly, for aerial photographs and powerful magnifying glasses put a heavy
discount upon even the most skilful camouflage.
The recent grand maneuvers by the United States Pacific fleet were in
the nature of amphibian operations, a big landing of marines being carried
out at Hawaii. The umpires declare that the attack succeeded and that
the landing was made good, but there has been rather an unkind suggestion
that propaganda was one of the purposes of the demonstration, to persuade
Congress to vote more money for the defense of Hawaii. If the bombard-
ment was leveled against the static defenses of the place, it is not difficult
to believe that it did succeed.
Why does our own navy never carry out any rehearsals of this kind ?
The "reminiscence cruise" of the Mediterranean fleet among the islands
which figured so prominently during the Gallipoli campaign has no doubt
been very interesting, but of what instructional value was it? The present
system under which senior naval officers take courses at Army schools is
excellent, but it does not go nearly far enough in the way of amphibian
training. How do these officers apply the knowledge they thus acquire?
In the old days of naval brigades the sea service got more real experience
of amphibian warfare than it does now, when the principle of landing for
military purposes is altogether ruled out-and quite properly so, I think ;
for it is not the business of the navy to do soldiers' work. But it cer-
tainly is the Navy's business to enable soldiers to do their work so far as
the element of salt water can contribute to this result.
The most effective answer to my question, of course, would be coordina-
tion of supreme command of all the fighting services, still maintaining
decentralized administration. The navy and the army worked in splendid
comradeship during the Great War, but from time to time there arose the
crippling condition of divided counsels. Sir Ian Hamilton asked Sir John
de Robeck to "go on." Sir John de Robeck said he was not "going on."
Probably both were right, but campaigning on these lines holds very poor
assurance of success. One recalls Napoleon's dictum: “Either Kellerman,
or I, but not both in conjunction.”
A New Industry
The Gazette and Daily, York, Pennsylvania, 17 October, 1925.—The York
Oil and Chemical Company, incorporated under the laws of the state of
Pennsylvania, has just completed its plant near Richland Avenue, on the
Grantley property of the York Manufacturing Company. The company is
incorporated for $100,000 and has the following officers: Joseph L. Rosen-
miller, president; Charles H. Ehrenfeld, vice president; Thomas Shipley,
treasurer; Earle W. Gardner, secretary
The incorporation of this company was the result of two years of ex-
haustive service and laboratory tests on oils made by lubricating and re-
frigerating engineers in the test plant of the York Manufacturing Company
and in commercial plants.
The plant consists of a modern one-story steel and brick building, 126 feet
8 inches long by 76 feet 8 inches wide. On the north side of the building a
loading platform 17 feet wide extends the full length of the building, and
parallel with the railroad siding. This structure is partitioned off into office
space, oil laboratories, boiler and wash rooms, and extensive floor area de-
voted to the manufacture of oils for the lubrication of refrigerating
machinery.


  p. 2406 (#1370)                      

2406
[Dec
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
This is the first company in the world incorporated for the purpose of
specializing in the manufacture of oils for the lubrication of ammonia and
CO, (carbon dioxide) compressors, it is declared. The plant contains the
most modern oil blending, purifying, and filling apparatus that can be had
Five steel storage tanks each of capacity of 12,500 gallons are used for
storage of stock oils. The building also contains approximately 1,000 feet
of pipe lines leading from tanks to blending kettles and purifying and filling
apparatus. This plant has a capacity of 2,500 gallons of refined oil per
day, and is now on a production basis.
The York Oil and Chemical Company is a subsidiary of the York Vanu-
facturing Company, and will market its oils through that company's ex-
tensive chain of selling agencies.
CURRENT NAVAL AND PROFESSIONAL PAPERS
"The Need for a Government Ship Replacement Program." By Admiral
Benson. The Nautical Gazette, October 3, et seq.
"Recent Development in Light Aluminum Alloys and Their Application"
The American Metal Market, September.
"Recent Progress in Flying Boat Design." Engineering, October 2.
“The Influence of Air Power on Coast Defense.” The Coast Artillery
Journal, October.
“Anti-Aircraft Artillery.” “The Supply, Training, and Organization
of Technical Specialists." "On Ottoman Subjects." The Journal of the
Royal Artillery, October.
"The Admiralty System of Higher Education.” Engineering, October


  p. 2407 (#1371)                      

NOTES ON INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS
FROM OCTOBER 3 TO NOVEMBER 3
PREPARED BY
PROFESSOR ALLAN WESTCOTT, U. S. NAVAL ACADEMY
EUROPEAN SECURITY AGREEMENTS SIGNED
SUCCESSFUL RESULTS AT LOCARNO.—After ten days of earnest and often
critical negotiations, from October 5 to October 16, the prime ministers
of European states assembled in the little town of Locarno, Switzerland,
reached complete agreement on a series of treaties binding Germany to
peaceful settlement of disputes with the three chief nations on her frontiers.
The protocols were signed by the British, French, German, Italian, Polish,
and Czecho-Slovakian premiers on October 16. If the treaties were ratified
by the parliaments of the nations concerned it was planned that the final
signing should take place in London on December 1. The agreements
reached were as follows:
(1) The Rhineland Treaty, basically between France, Belgium, and
Germany, and guaranteed by England and Italy. This is a joint agreement
of Germany and France, and Germany and Belgium, to arbitrate all future
disputes, the provisions of the Versailles and other existing treaties re-
maining unaffected. Germany agrees to apply at once for admission to the
League of Nations, the Council meeting to receive her application in De-
cember. The present demilitarized Rhine Zone established by the Versailles
Treaty is to be held in violate by France and Germany unless one or the
other shall break certain provisions of the Versailles Treaty or League
Covenant bearing on the question. In case of unwarranted attack, Great
Britain and Italy pledge aid to the nation attacked.
(2) A technical arbitration treaty between Germany and France.
(3) A similar treaty between Germany and Belgium.
(4) An arbitration treaty between Germany and Poland.
(5) An arbitration treaty between Germany and Czecho-Slovakia.
Subordinate to and facilitating these treaties, certain other agreements
were made: First, France and Poland, and France and Czecho-Slovakia
entered into mutual agreements which in effect guaranteed support against
Germany in case of her violation of the arbitration agreement. Second, the
Allied powers conceded to Germany: that upon her entry into the League
special regard would be given to her disarmed condition in calling upon her
to fulfill military and economic obligations; that if possible she should be
given a mandate (probably one of her former colonies) ; that the evacuation
of Cologne should be hastened and improvements made in the government
of the Saar Valley.


  p. 2408 (#1372)                      

2408
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
The agreement was generally hailed as a promise of bringing France and
Germany together, furthering peace in central Europe, strengthening the
League of Nations, and isolating Bolshevism.
EFFECT IN BERLIN.—Premier Luther and Foreign Minister Stresemann,
the German representatives at Locarno, were warmly greeted upon their
return to Berlin, but not by leaders of the Nationalist party. In token of
their opposition to the treaties, several Nationalist members withdrew
from the Luther Cabinet. Minister Stresemann gave assurance that a large
majority in the Reichstag approved the agreements and would insure their
ratification.
GREEK-BULGARIAN HOSTILITIES HALTED
European diplomacy was startled on October 20 by news of threatened
hostilities between Greece and Bulgaria arising from a clash on the frontier
between Greek and Bulgarian troops on the night of October 19-20. Fears
were left lest the intensely nationalistic military leaders who had recently
assumed power in Greece, were deliberately employing the affair to bring
on war.
Pending official investigation, the facts of the clash remained obscure.
From the conflicting reports of the two governments it appeared that a
Greek soldier was shot by a Bulgarian sentry on Bulgarian soil. Efforts
of the Greeks to secure the body led to a general fusilade by troops of both
nations. Greece then sent a 48-hour ultimatum demanding apology, punish-
ment, and a two million gold franc indemnity. Upon Bulgaria's refusal,
Greek troops occupied several Bulgarian towns.
In the meantime Bulgaria telegraphed an appeal to the League of Na-
tions. Aristide Briand, as President of the League Council, on October 23
sent messages to both Athens and Sofia inviting envoys to a session of the
Council set for October 26 and exhorting both nations to withdraw their
troops behind the frontiers pending the meeting.
At the session of the Council a resolution was adopted requesting the
Greek and Bulgarian Governments to inform the Council within twenty-
four hours that their troops had been given absolute orders to remove within
their respective frontiers, and to inform the Council within sixty hours that
all hostilities had ceased. Military officers of Great Britain, France, and
Italy were sent to the scene to see that these terms were carrid out. Both
Greece and Bulgaria acquiesced. On October 29, upon the arrival of the
military representatives of the powers, the Greek evacuation was carried out.
A special commission headed by Sir Horace Rumboldt, British ambassa-
dor to Spain, and including representatives of France, Italy, Sweden, and
the Netherlands, was appointed to leave Geneva on November 6 in order to
fix responsibility for the outbreak and make a report to the Council at its
meeting on December 12.
FORCE BEHIND League ActION.—(From New York Times of October
30.)-Success of the League effort this week cannot be charged up entirely


  p. 2409 (#1373)                      

1925)
2409
Notes on International Affairs
to the force of moral suasion. There was more involved. England and
France meant just what they said when they sent word to the Greeks to
get out of Bulgaria in sixty hours.
When Austen Chamberlain arrived in Paris on Monday he was closeted
with M. Briand for two hours. The British foreign minister is understood
to have laid down the proposition that the Council must approach the situa-
tion resolyed to go through with it. He is said to have stated the British
Government was ready, if either party resisted the League, first, to break
off diplomatic relations; second, to break off economic relations; third, to
make a fleet demonstration; fourth, to blockade the ports.
It is entirely possible, indeed probable, that the Athens government knew
this attitude of the British foreign secretary, with which the French de-
clared themselves in agreement and subsequently the whole Council approved.
It is understood that in League circles discussion of eventualities led to
a consideration of what would happen if any such League blockade inter-
fered with American shipping, even in an isolated case. It is said that
such an incident would probably be avoided, but if it arose it was the opinion
of League members that neither the American Government nor American
public opinion would wish to make a big issue out of the possible incon-
venience arising out of the League's efforts to prevent war, to which purpose
Washington could not possibly be opposed in principle.
FRANCE
CAILLAUX DROPPED FROM CABINET.–At the close of October it became
necessary for Premier Painlevé to force out of his cabinet Finance Minister
Caillaux, whose financial policies, and especially his opposition to a capital
levy, had aroused increasing dissatisfaction both in the Chamber and
within the cabinet. Upon M. Caillaux's refusal to resign alone, the entire
cabinet resigned, but was immediately reorganized by Premier Poincaré
with ten of his former colleagues and four new members, two of whom
were in the Herriot Cabinet. These additions secured at least temporary
support from the Socialists, though the fate of the ministry remained at
the mercy of any sudden combination of the extreme Right or Left. Premier
Painlevé himself took over the Ministry of Finance, but with another minis-
ter in charge of the budget. It was reported that the new government
favored some form of capital levy, as the only means of relieving the present
fiscal situation, although such a measure would probably be defeated in the
French Senate.
TROUBLE OF FRANCE IN SYRIA.—The difficulties of France in her man-
date of Syria arising from the revolt of the Druse tribesmen, were in-
creased in the latter part of October by a revolt within the capital city of
Damascus. Pan-Arab and other anti-French elements in the city, taking
advantage of the absence of French troops in the Druse campaign, created
disturbances and led the French forces on October 18-20 to bombard the
city from forts on the outskirts of the town. Although foreign residents
had been warned, the bombardment caused some loss of life and considerable
damage to property.
The alleged blundering and tactlessness of the French governor, General
Sarrail, both in this affair and the Druse uprising, led to demands at home


  p. 2410 (#1374)                      

2410 U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings [Dec.
for his recall. On October 31 the Permanent Mandates Commission of the
League of Nations asked France for official comment on the petitions and
protests filed with the League as a result of the Damascus bombardment.
FRENCH LOSSES IN COLONIAL WARS.—According to a report by a com-
mittee of the French Chamber, France has lost 3,000,000,000 francs and
17,000 men since taking over the protectorate of Morocco and the mandate
over Syria (1920). In Morocco 2,176 were killed and 8,297 wounded, and in
Syria 6,626 killed, wounded, or missing. The cost in Morocco was about
one billion francs and in Syria two billion. The premier said he would ask
300,000,000 francs additional credits for the Morocco campaign for the
period July-December.
In Syria the losses in the Druse campaign have been 585 killed, wounded,
and missing, of which about half were French soldiers.
ITALY
PROGRESS OF FASCISMO.-(From Time, October 19.)-Last week (Octo-
ber 12-19] Fascismo took a new and overwhelming stride toward dominance
in Italian affairs. Announcements on three successive days outlined a pro-
gram of absolutism which the Fascisti have called "the third wave of the
Fascist revolution." The announcements were as follows:
One. An agreement has been made between the Italian Confederation
of Industry (representing practically all Italian employes) and the Con-
federation of Fascist Trade Unions, to the effect that in all employer-em-
ploye disputes the two confederations are to regard each other as having
the sole right to represent respectively all Italian employers and all Italian
workingmen.
By this agreement the Socialists, who for thirty years have assumed to
themselves the right to champion and defend the working class, are ruled
out of practically all labor disputes. The Fascists declare that the measure
will put an end to the Socialists' attempts to start a Marxian class war,
and will bring about the realization of the Fascist ideal of class collaboration.
Two. The Mussolini Cabinet approved a bill providing that henceforth
the Mayor of Rome and the mayors of all Italian municipalities of less than
5,000 inhabitants will be superseded by officers appointed by the Central
Government. Thus the electorates of the towns affected will have practically
no voice in the administration of their local affairs.
The Fascisti assert that this "reform" is made necessary by the fact that
Italians are frequently swayed by passion at local elections, and do not
return to office such able men as the Central Government would set over
them.
The proposed officials are likened to the "Podestas" of the early Italian
republics, who were Governors possessed of extensive powers.
Three. Several interlocking measures were likewise approved by the
Fascist Council of Ministers which are intended to alter the whole political
structure of Italy. What is proposed is that the Senate shall be gradually
transformed from a body the members of which are appointed by the King,
into an elective assembly whose members shall be representatives of various
organizations recognized by the Fascist government, chiefly agriculturalists,
industrialists, and workingmen. At the same time the power of the Senate
would be increased, so that it would eventually become the more important
of the two houses of Parliament.
Significance. Premier Mussolini undoubtedly intends to throw his whole
influence behind this program. And he will have a united Fascist party


  p. 2411 (#1375)                      

1925)
2411
Notes on International Affairs
at his back. It is considered that the "reforms” have a very good chance
of being imposed upon Italy.
ATTACKS ON MASONS.—During the same week, in Florence, Fascists
killed and wounded a number of Freemasons and plundered and burned the
houses of members of the order. Press reports stated that a Mason had
previously shot and killed a Fascist leader. The head of the Masonic Order
in Italy issued notice from Rome that meetings and activities were to cease
until "the law abolishing secret societies shall be made void.”
GREAT BRITAIN
PREMIER BALDWIN'S POLICIES.—(From Time, October 19.)–At the an-
nual convention of the British Conservative Party at Brighton, Premier
Baldwin spoke in support of the policies of his government. He was full
of calming assurances that Britain is not so badly off as alarmists declare.
A striking feature was Mr. Baldwin's assertion that "Great Britain means
to stay in Mosul and Iraq .... and will cooperate with the Iraq Govern-
ment to insure the stability and progress of that country until such time as
our help is no longer needed.'
He denied that a Turko-British crisis is impending, declaring that Britain
is still willing to arbitrate the question of whether Iraq or Turkey shall
eventually possess Mosul, indicated that he believes the League of Nations
and the Hague Court will be able to induce Turkey to fulfill the obligation
which Englishmen consider she assumed at Brussels last October.
Commenting upon European affairs he declared for “regional compacts"
and the entrance of Germany into the League as a force for World Peace.
Next he touched upon domestic affairs, admitted that he had instituted
the much criticized coal subsidy with reluctance, but defended it as better
than the alternative of subjecting England to "a crippling industrial
struggle.” He replied as follows to those Conservatives who urged that
the British Government crush British communism by Fascist tactics : "I've
been told that this country wants a Mussolini. I have great respect for the
chief minister of a great country like Italy, but I know the temperament of
my own people. The English people will never tolerate a dictator. The
English people will never tolerate being Prussianized, nor, may I add,
Russianized.”
He gave assurances, however, that "any attempt to seduce the loyalty
of the nation's armed forces” would be strongly dealt with.
UNITED STATES DEBT SETTLEMENTS
Czecho-SLOVAKIAN DEBT AGREEMENT.-On October 6-9 agreement was
quickly reached between the United States Debt Funding Commission and
the representatives sent to Washington by Czecho-Slovakia. The settlement
fixed a compromise figure of $115,000,000 (two million less than the Ameri-
can estimate) as the debt total, with payments extending over sixty-two
years and interest at 3 per cent for ten years and 372 per cent thereafter.
The amount of the payments will be $3,000,000 a year for eighteen years and
about $6,000,000 in the years following.
ITALIAN MISSION IN WASHINGTON.—The Italian Debt Commission to the
United States arrived in Washington on November 2. It was headed by
Count Volpi, and included five other members.


  p. 2412 (#1376)                      

2412
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
CHINA
OPENING OF TARIFF CONFERENCE.—The Chinese Tariff Conference
opened on October 26 at the Winter Palace in Peking with many Chinese
delegates and representatives of twelve foreign powers. Minister John Van
A. MacMurray and Silas A. Strawn represented the United States. Out-
side the gates of the palace 2,000 students rioted against the Provisional
Government, killing a policeman and injuring a score more. The Chinese
proposals presented on the opening day were summarized in the press as
follows:
These ask that the powers restore tariff autonomy to China and accept
a new national Chinese tariff law, to take effect not later than January 1,
1929, setting schedules ranging between 772 and 40 per cent for most im-
ports and between 50 and 80 per cent for wines and tobacco. China would
then agree to abolish the likin, or taxes on interprovincial commerce.
The keynote of the replies of the powers was struck by Mr. MacMurray,
the American Minister, who said the United States was prepared to con-
sider openmindedly and generously any reasonable plan with a view to
realizing China's aspirations.
A statement of the rather conservative Japanese attitude was given by
Eki Hioki, who reminded the Chinese that Japan had won tariff autonomy
only after a struggle of fifty-three years, and that China could expect to
reach her goal only by successive stages. Mr. Hioki was the Japanese
Minister to Peking, who, in 1915, presented Japan's famous "twenty-one
demands" on China.
China's Civil War.—(Associated Press, October 25.)—Washington,
October 25.-The fate of the Chinese customs conference apparently turns
on the attitude of one of the three militarists who dominate China's po-
litical affairs.
For the moment, General Feng Yu-shiang, the “Christian General,"
whose revolt against Marshal Wu Pei-fu in October, 1924, sent that for-
mer Peking dictator into retirement and turned control of the Central
Government over to Chang Tso-lin, Manchurian war lord, has not disclosed
his purpose. He apparently holds the balance of power between Wu and
Chang, and plans for the customs conference are proceeding at Peking on
the assumption that he will continue his support of Chang.
The sudden reentry of Wu into the tangle of Chinese internal politics
with the support of the Yangtse Valley provincial military chiefs, however,
conceivably is based on an understanding with Feng, which has not been
revealed.
In any event, the conference delegates assembled at Peking are bystanders
in this new Chinese conflict. They can be expected to observe complete
neutrality, although the statement that Chang has maintained his hold on
Manchuria and widened it to grasp the powers of Central Government in
Peking through Japanese aid never has been denied.
Wu's adherents already have driven Chang out of the Shanghai province,
into which his control had extended, and forced him back all along the line
toward Central China, with Peking apparently the goal of the drive they
now have formally placed in Wu's hands. At one side of the direct road
to the capital stands Feng, with a busy artery of military supply stretching
from his headquarters at Kalgan into Mongolia, and thus to Russian Soviet
sources, placing him in a strategic position to seize Peking and overthrow
the Central Government should political strategy require him to revert,
even temporarily, to Wu's standard.


  p. 2413 (#1377)                      

1925)
2413
Notes on International Affairs
Most Washington observers have felt that it would be impossible for
Wu and Feng to come together and act again in harmony. They have
pointed out that the defection of Feng while Wu was preparing to grapple
with Chang in an effort to carry his control into Manchuria by force of
arms hurled Wu from power overnight, and that the latter would not be
likely to trust Feng again.
THREAT TO JAPAN.-(New York Times, October 21.)-Tokio, October
20.—The fact that there may be possible seeds of a second Russo-Japanese
war in the revolt of the central provinces of China against the Peking
Government is seen as one reason why the Japanese Government is watch-
ing the civil war development with grave anxiety.
Should Feng Yu-shiang follow Wu Pei-fu and join the revolt there is a
chance that these two, backed by Chinese opposing the present Government
and supplied with Russian money and munitions, would defeat Chang
Tso-lin and include Manchuria in the semi-Bolshevist Government they
would form.
In this event Japan would either lose the South Manchuria Railway,
Port Arthur and other Manchurian holdings, or be forced to enter the con-
flict, and it is acknowledged that Japan would go to war if its Manchurian
holdings were at stake. In case Marshal Chang's position is threatened by
a pro-Soviet alliance Japan would probably go to his aid with money and
munitions, which is a situation that might lead directly to a Russian war.
Even though a Russo-Japanese war did not result, Japan's helping of
Chang would be misinterpreted as meddling in China with ulterior purposes
by other nations whose friendship might be alienated, and it would also be
extremely expensive.
It is recognized, however, that this situation is unlikely to develop as
Marshal Chang's position in Manchuria is so nearly impregnable, due to
the rough terrain and the lack of means of transportation, that an invasion
from China proper would have little chance of success. But its possibility
is strong enough to warrant the Japanese Government's grave concern.


  p. 2414 (#1378)                      

BOOK REVIEWS
THE LAWLESS LAW OF NATIONS. By STERLING E. Ed-
MUNDS, LL.D. Washington, D.C.: John Byrne and Company.
$5.00.
REVIEWED BY REAR ADMIRAL W. L. RODGERS, U. S. Navy, RET.
The book is not so much an exposition of the Law of Nations as it is a
stricture thero. The law of nations as it is practiced today does not
agree with the author's philosophy of life and government, and he displays
some resentment against it and its upholders. The writer's summary of the
state of international law is most learned, but he has the obsession that it
is developed and manipulated for purposes foreign to the good of the peoples
of the world. He believes that rulers of states, even states with democratic
forms of government, are not real representatives of their peoples and the
latter's wishes.
He states in his preface: "I feel that I have demonstrated the complete
oppugnancy between the prevailing system of the law of nations and the free
progress of man as a social and moral being. In doing so, I have been
compelled to deny that the law of nations is in fact a branch of juris-
prudence, and thus to part company with my professional brethren in this
field."
He believes that people should strip their governments of external power
they now have, but disavows that he has any bias toward Bolshevism,
Socialism, or Anarchism. The writer states that, in the course of history,
civilized peoples have thrown off despotism in their domestic affairs and
substituted a government of limited powers controlled by the people.
Notwithstanding, in foreign affairs, nations are ruled by a narrow oli-
garchy who control peace and war and the manner of waging war as they
think advantageous to themselves and their own interests; this state of af-
fairs he wishes remedied, for it reacts unfavorably on domestic govern-
ments.
"The Law of Nations, so-called, is not a law of restraints upon sovereign
states, but rather á law of condonation; a law sanctioning every outrage
that a sovereign government commits against other peoples for its own
aggrandizement. . . . . No people who has ever permitted its government
to strip another people of its liberty has ever saved its own."
The writer thus throws down a challenge to the law of nations to justify
its existence.
He does not find the sovereign state living according to the rules evolved
by man as a social and moral being in his municipal systems.


  p. 2415 (#1379)                      

1925)
2415
Book Reviews
"Peoples . ... must establish .... safeguards against the capricious
irresponsibility of their Sovereign Governments in the international field.”
The writer regards governments as promoting wars for the benefit of
the rulers themselves and their banking and commercial friends, and thinks
that in international matters "economic man in pursuing his self interest
would, as invariably results, promote the good of all.” This view arises
from a doctrine which is now somewhat outgrown.
We are getting more and more government as the complexity of our
social and economic life increases, precisely because the "economic man" pur-
suing self interest does not promote the good of all, either in national or
international affairs.
Considering the "economic man" to which the writer alludes, it must be
acknowledged that he has two functions. He is a producer and also a
consumer. It is as producer that all the world can and does cooperate
with his neighbor. In general, people do not wish to stop their neighbors
from producing, but when it comes to consumption of products and enjoy-
ing the fruits of labor the economic man does not cooperate but competes
with his neighbor. Production is difficult; consumption is a pleasure and
satsfaction; and the chief end of government is to provide rule and order,
so that each man may consume the fruits of his own labor himself and
not have to forfeit them to another.
With the developments in mechanical power and transportation of the
last century, the economic units of the world have become very large
Whole nations are now competing collectively with other nations in the
economic field.
The writer believes that the "inherent vice of the so-called Society of
Nations" lies in its "fraudulent organization of ruling politicians through-
out the world, disguised and glorified as sovereign, that is, omnipotent states,
whose power no people can limit.”
But all governments are more or less representative of the people. Even
despotism is tempered by assasination, and the writer does not explain how
the ruling politicians whom he dislikes can be replaced by a purer and
better choice, more representative of the people's will.
The writer is not alone in proclaiming that international law is no true
law. There are two conceptions of law, says he, one "embodying the idea
of order founded in agreement between man and man as rational beings
effecting peace through bearing and forbearing in their relations with their
fellow-man, the other, denying the possibility of peace save through the
surrender by man of all his rights into the hands of an autocrat.”
Taking either view of law, the relations between sovereign states are
not law, for they are founded neither on invariable custom and precedent
nor on the sanctions provided by authority. The generally accepted view
is that law is a rule of conduct imposed under a sanction of superior might.
As the world is guided by this latter conception, let us see why it cannot be
enforced in international affairs, as the author wishes. In municipal matters
observance of law is constrained upon an offender, by a force so great that


  p. 2416 (#1380)                      

2416
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
he does not make overt resistance. The examination in the court is assumed
to be impartial, and when judgment is pronounced it is futile to with-
stand it.
If, however, the law is unable to summon an overwhelming force to its
support, it is likely to be disregarded. There are many laws on the statute
book which cannot summon force enough to get themselves obeyed.
The writer chooses "economic” man working for himself as enjoying the
ideal condition of life, but admits that government is necessary to provide
order. However, he regards military force as wholly an evil thing because
it is abused by people holding governmental authority for their own ends.
But this abuse is a secondary matter, and this view is not in accord with
history, which shows that order provided by government through use of
superior force is the primary condition for the development of "economic
man in the specialization of industry. We are now pushing this specializa-
tion further than ever. Great industrial nations need order more than ever
in the past. They cannot place themselves and their industrial organization
at the mercy of nations less highly organized in industry. “We commanded
you that he that would not work neither should he eat,” says the Bible.
But this command was possible of execution only in a world protected and
given peace by Roman arms. Without similar protection lawless people
today might eat without working. To be sure the necessary armament of a
nation may be turned against the liberties of its own people by the abuse of
power on the part of rulers, but, even in such a case, the government must
continue to perform its first duty, the preservation of order, or even a
despotic government (tyranny) will fall.
The writer believes that nations can live together harmoniously by wish-
ing and willing to do so. Who then is to decide as to the division of the
fruits of the earth when disputes arise? This can only be settled by a
super-government complete in all its parts, and if we should ever get such
a thing, the originally satisfactory adjustments of different regions and
peoples will vary so in the lapse of time that virile peoples will probably
seek to right their real or fancied wrongs by civil war instead of by inter-
national war. It is not an attractive alternative.
The writer believes that the law of nature or of morality should be the
guidance of nations in their relations. Of course, this is admitted by all
as an academic truth, but we never have determined for individuals what
is the sound general criterion as to the moral duty of self-sacrifice. Yet
that is the moral question confronting nations when they find their interests
and policies clashing. After conceding reasonable compromises, they must
either sacrifice their rights and interests or fight. The law of nations is
then, as the writer says, no true law. It is a code of etiquette and con-
venience and a guide as long as the conditions last which each rule was
made to meet.
Regarding states as sovereign, that is, as having no superior to lay
commands upon them, there are two parts to international law: one regards
the relations of the states as such, that is, of their respective peoples as


  p. 2417 (#1381)                      

1925)
2417
Book Reviews
collective units; and the other, that of individuals of the respective, states
with other states.
While a treaty is no true law by Austin's definition of a rule having an
enforceable sanction, yet, when ratified, it becomes national law with relation
to the respective nationals of each country, because each state enforces
observance upon its own nationals.
But a treaty is made to suit the conditions of the day; as time passes
it may become unsuitable to new conditions. If, then, one party wishes to
break or amend it, it should have some recognized way of doing so without
incurring the charge of law-breaking. If this country adheres to the World
Court, and places treaties on a basis entirely legal, it can never release
itself from antiquated and unsuitable agreements; for a court is in its
essence conservative, and if a world court proceeds to legislate to meet new
conditions by judicial decisions, it will not fulfill its functions as we of the
United States see them. For public opinion in this country has always
deemed the right of courts to legislate by interpretation of existing law to
meet new conditions.
The writer concludes his chapter on treaties by saying that "the idea
of sovereignty, or unlimited and irresponsible power as an essential attri-
bute of states in the prevailing system renders international contractual
relations wholly futile.”
As individual men rarely require the law to vindicate the faith of con-
tracts, so the writer seems to believe that the law of nations should main-
tain the faith of treaties were nations, that is, the people themselves, only
members of the "Society of Nations."
This suggestion raises the question of force available to the "Society of
Nations” to vindicate the law. Shall the super-government maintain a
military force, or shall it prescribe boycotts and other forms of pressure
short of war, or is it to direct some member to make war in the name of
the Society of Nations ?
If individual nations send contingents to serve under the super-government,
they will scarcely renounce control over their contingents. Boycotts are ob-
jectionable to all concerned and if put in execution they are an unstable
form of coercion which tends either to lapse or to turn to war. And as
for directing some member nation to make war against the offending nation,
it is probable that the ministerial nation will see to its own profit in its
belligerency before undertaking the service, and this would disturb the
"status quo" so dear to all who rely on law as all-adequate to preserve
peace.
The writer deals at some length with "freedom of the seas.” The first
impediment to the free use of the seas was piracy. That has been done
away with, and, in time of peace, navigation is now free to all peaceful
shipping, no nation interfering therewith by violence. But in time of war,
belligerent powers exercise a considerable measure of control or super-
vision over traffic under the accepted rules of war.
The writer believes that justice and right should grant free traffic to
neutral trade and to privately owned enemy property. Apparently, if he


  p. 2418 (#1382)                      

2418
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
could, he would confine belligerent action on the high seas to battle between
hostile combatant shipping. He is seemingly unaware that commerce is
the ultimate objective of maritime warfare and that navies fight each other
only to clear the way for the control of maritime traffic in their own interest.
If force is ever to be applied between nations, either in their present
sovereign relations or as members of some super-government, the attack on
national trade is an indispensable method of applying coercion. For there
are two ways of making effective war, that is, of bringing one belligerent
to yield his will to that of the other. One way is by a direct attack upon
persons and lives; the other way is by an indirect attack upon lives by
crippling or destroying the material means of support. A man's property is
what makes his life worth living.
Thus, the capture or destruction of hostile trade is a very severe blow
to the enemy. In the last war the English blockade of Germany caused her
people to fail before her armies did. In the present closely knit economics of
trade, a nation at war needs to draw support of her war industries from all
the world, and attack upon trade is not so inhumane as bloodshed. More.
over, private ownership should not claim immunity solely on that account.
Private ownership vests in two classes of goods distinguished as producers'
goods and consumers' goods. The first class is goods in manufacture and
in traffic, which have not yet arrived in the hands of the ultimate con-
sumer where they are to remain in service. Consumers' goods are products
in the hands of the last owner who does not intend to part with them in
the way of business. These last should be respected by the laws of war,
for they are really privately owned, but producers' goods of all classes
are part of the national resources all more or less essential to his maintain-
ing the war, and national insurance spreads the risk so that the private
owner has no substantial personal ground of complaint if he loses to the
enemy.
As for the sanctity of neutral trade, it has two sides. As neutral trade
it should be inviolable, but as it is also belligerent trade it is support to the
enemy.
The practical procedure as worked out through the centuries is to operate
against it, as far as may be, without driving the neutral to active resistance
and participation in war to afford protection to his trade. As every nation
is loath to go to war, the belligerents have a considerable field even when
the neutrals are strong. For us of the United States, our historic stand
(when neutral) for a law of war favoring neutral rights is now ill advised.
We should prefer a law favoring belligerent rights. We are no longer
weak. Our financial and naval strength and vast industries are so necessary
to belligerents when we ourselves are neutral, that we can command favor-
able diplomatic easements of any code of practice severe towards neutral
trade; whereas, when we ourselves are at war we legally should be free to
control neutral trade somewhat rigidly as we have always done when at
war. Our practice in the Civil War was the basis of English practice in
the recent war. If this country preserves its present naval strength, the


  p. 2419 (#1383)                      

1925]
2419
Book Reviews
British practice of the last war is one which this country should support
as a proper one for the future.
The new methods of visit and search known colloquially as the “Kirk-
wall” practice have much to commend them in principle, although it was
averred that the British abused their opportunity to aid their own business.
If the charge is true, it was extremely bad policy, for war bears hard on
neutrals, and it is unwise to give unnecessary offense to neutrals, for moral
forces control the action of peoples even in the case when the rulers seem-
ingly hold the most absolute power over their individual subjects.
The writer closes his review of international relations with a declaration
of the horrors of war as forced upon the world by sovereign states acting
contrary to the wishes of their peoples and he avows his belief that if
“man's freedom is to continue, iſ the realization of the law of equa! freedom
is not to be indefinitely postponed in the resurgent mediæval savagery,
foreshadowed in the present day remobilization of whole nations for war
by their sovereign states, a new political upheaval, the counterpart of that
begun in the late Eighteenth Century, must close the protecting circle of
constitutional government around him.”
Thus he seems to look to revolution and civil war as the probable route
for escape from recurrent international wars.
THE LIFE OF AN AMERICAN SAILOR, REAR AD-
MIRAL WILLIAM HENSLEY EMORY, U. S. NAVY.
From His Letters and Memoirs. Edited by REAR ADMIRAL
ALBERT GLEAVES, U. S. N., LL.D. New York: George H.
Doran Co. $4.00.
REVIEWED BY REAR ADMIRAL C. F. GOODRICH, U. S. Navy, RET.
The author, who modestly calls himself "editor,” gives an interesting
account of the life and experiences of his subject, in that excellent style
of which he is the master.
The customary practice of the reviewer is to present a summary of the
contents of the book under his criticism. Except for stressing the value
of a distinguished ancestry of which Emory is an exemplar, I do not
employ this method, for the reason that it might possibly influence the
reader to content himself therewith and so deprive himself of the pleasure
which a familiarity with this volume would unquestionably yield. My
object is to arouse the interest of the rising generation of naval officers in
Emory as the man and the sailor, his personality and his charcater, be-
lieving as I do, that our younger men will find much to emulate in his
career, especially in his devotion to the service of which he was an orna-
ment. Consequently I shall use his record, as I must at times, only to
substantiate my opinions. For a full understanding of Emory's achieve-
ments, recourse should be had to the work in question.


  p. 2420 (#1384)                      

2420
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
His self dependence is first shown in how he secured his admission into
the Naval Academy. Residing in Washington, he obtained a round-robin
recommendation from certain senators and members of Congress, and then
camped out on the steps of the White House until, after long waiting, he
was finally shown into the President's office, where he made his own plea
to Mr. Lincoln, who sent for his mother, and said to her, “Mrs. Emory,
any boy who wants to enter the Navy so much that he comes to me for
an appointment ought to have it. I should like, with your consent, to
appoint him.” So, on September 23, 1862, he became an "acting midship-
man." Thus early did he learn that the best way to get what he wanted
was to “go for it” himself.
He made friends in all walks of life, as witness the regard he inspired
in no less famous person that Colonel Cody, better known as “Buffalo
Bill.” Concerning this friendship, two very amusing incidents are em-
bodied in the text. At the other end of the social scale was Admiral David
D. Porter, to whom he was aide when a lieutenant, and whom he served
with zeal and tact, the latter particularly exemplified in his blocking, at
Washington, a certain bit of legislation adverse to the interests of the Navy
and the admiral, then ill at Narragansett Pier.
One cannot resist quoting, in passing, from one of Porter's letters to
Emory, "there are too many of those damn boards at Washington. They
should all be broken up."
In the relief of Greely, by the expedition under Schley, Emory com-
manded the Bear, a Dundee whaler bought for the purpose and later trans-
ferred to the Revenue Marine. His loyalty and the efficiency of his sup-
port of his senior officer mark every page of that story. Before his starting,
Mrs. Emory, in an adjoining room, overheard Schley say to her husband,
"Our orders are to bring them (the members of Greely's party) back, dead
or alive. Suppose we do not find them?" Emory replied, “In that case, I
shall not come back.” That is the kind of man Emory was, for he meant
every word he said.
The duty of Arctic exploration is arduous enough under any circum-
stances, but in this instance, it was still more so, for all of Schley's men
realized that the rescue of Greely might be a matter of a day or two,
hence no delay nor slackness of effort was permissible. Therefore, Emory
spent the time either on the bridge or, more generally, in the crow's nest,
which he seldom left, eating there the food carried up to him, and only
coming below, when too numb, for a rub down with alcohol. This done,
he would return to his lookout aloft. Emory's robust frame enabled him
to endure what would have incapacitated a man physically weaker.
What a fine spirit he showed when Schley told him he was too bold
and that if he continued to jump his ship over the rocks and ice, he would
sink her. To this cautionary warning Emory replied that, if he did, he
would buy one of the whalers (seeking Greely to win the large reward
offered) and keep on to the north. No wonder that two such men as
Schley and Emory found Greely and the six survivors out of the twenty-
four.


  p. 2421 (#1385)                      

1925]
2421
Book Reviezers
We must credit Emory with what is now termed vision. Before the Bear
sailed from New York, he located the dentist there who had treated Greely's
men and obtained all the data possible about their teeth to aid in identifying
their bodies, if dead. This information proved later to be of the greatest
help.
Here is what Schley said of him officially, “I would commend him
especially to the Department as an officer of high professional merit and
competency and would frankly state that much of the success of the ex-
pedition was due to him and his able officered ship.”
In 1887 he was given the command of the Thetis, which had been Schley's
flagship in the Greely search, and was sent around to the west coast and
up into the Bering Sea, primarily to help our whaling vessels to return to
warmer waters when the season closed in the Arctic Ocean. No better
man could have been found for this dangerous service for to his energy
and fearlessness was added his knowledge of Arctic conditions gained in
the quest of Greely. Beside his many good deeds to stranded or ship-
wrecked sailors was his saving and bringing back to port the schooner,
Jane Grey, pinched in the ice, abandoned and lying on her bilge in an ice
field. It was a seaman's job to right her, patch up the holes in her hull,
and fit her for the voyage south. Herein Emory revealed an unsuspected
talent. He and his crew waived all claim to salvage, feeling, as he re-
marked in his official report, “a great personal interest in having the Jane
Grey returned to Captan Kelly in person, as he is a fine specimen of an
American seaman, and the vessel wrecked represents his savings of many
years."
Emory was always the soul of hospitality and when a bucket was hoisted
at the Thetis' foreyard arm, the whaler captain repaired on board her not
so much for what that signal implied as to foregather with her genial and
competent skipper. To the uninitiated, it may be observed that the signal
conveyed the same invitation as the broken match brought to you on a tray
by a ward room boy in days now gone forever. The complete story of
Emory's work on this cruise reads like a novel of adventure.
His next duty was as Naval Attaché in London, a very different scene
from those stormy icebound seas with which he had become so familiar. His
work demanded extreme tact, courtesy, and knowledge of men. He per-
formed it to the entire satisfaction of his superiors there and in Washing-
ton. His record indeed was better than that of his predecessor, whom it
had been thought impossible to replace. For his social success in such an
exacting community, one should go to Gleaves' biography.
Emory shortly afterward found himself again in the Bering Sea, this
time in command of the U.S.S. Petrel, which, with my own ship, the U.S.S.
Concord, and others, was engaged in that solemn farce called "protecting the
sea herd.” It was a pleasure to work with him and Folger of the Yorktoren
and under such a senior officer as our beloved Charlie Clark, later of the
Oregon. In this field my earlier appreciation of Emory's skill and courage
was merely strengthened, in no wise changed.


  p. 2422 (#1386)                      

2422
(Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
We both returned to the China station that autumn to learn that China
and Japan were at war. What the Petrel did until peace was declared, and
afterwards, is interesting as a narrative, but it throws no new light on
Emory. He always did the right thing, as anyone who knew him would have
predicted.
His subsequent career as captain and rear admiral, while honorable in
every way and of unusual interest, tells us nothing new of the character,
the professional and personal qualities, he had already made known to his
contemporaries. A young officer can do no better than to read this book
attentively and so, in an emergency, be in a position to answer the question,
"What would Adiniral Emory have done in my place?" In view of what
I have written, can anyone wonder that I should have once said, "If I ever
find myself in a tight fix, I hope that Bill Emory will be alongside of me?"


  p. 2423 (#1387)                      

SECRETARY'S NOTES
Membership: New members joining since last report:
Quinn, John, Midshipman. U.S.N. Anderson, C. H., Ensign, U.S.N.
Jarrell, A. É., Ensign, U.S.N.
Brown, J. G., Ensign, Ú.S.N.
Seymour, T. P. Mr.
Tullsen, Waldo, Ensign, U.S.N.
Burkhead, L. H., Ensign, U.S.N. McAdam, S. T., Ensign, U.S.N.
Trumble, E. J., Lieut, U.S.M.C. McGown, M. Y., Ensign, U.S.N.
Wolcott, Theodore, Ensign, U.S.N.
Beattie, Byron, Mr.
Bailey, M. H., Ensign, U.S.N.
Bush, D. A., Ensign, U.S.N.
Ray, C. C., Ensign, U.S.N.
Vaquin, 0. F., Ensign, U.S.N.
Sledge, Alexander, Ensign, U.S.N.
Gallery, W. (., Ensign, U.S.N.
Cowie, T. R., Ensign, U.S.N.
Morrison, C. H. B., Ensign, U.S.N. Palmer, R. Ć., Ensign, U.S.N.
New Policy
The Board of Control has decided that, commenc-
Toward
ing January 1, 1926, all articles accepted subse-
quent to that date will be paid for in full at the
Contributors
time of acceptance.
Attention is invited to the fact that essays
Prize
for the “Prize Essay Contest, 1926” should
Essay 1926
be received not later than 1 January, 1926.
In the correspondence in the Professional Notes
Will the
Capital Ship
of this issue, pages 2342-2352 and pages 2356-
2359, some of the remarks therein have to do with
Disappear?
the trend of future naval construction, particu-
larly as regards capital ships. There is a distinct tendency among
some British writers to hold to the theme that, while aircraft have
not doomed the capital ship, nevertheless, in view of its cost and
having in mind the Conference on the Limitation of Armament, a
period is approaching wherein both Great Britain and the United
States, as well as other signatory powers, might well abolish the
capital ship, because cruisers could just as efficiently look after
their respective national interests. In this connection, there still
remains the meat of the whole question, which was noted by the
American delegates at the Conference, that with all naval war-
craft done away with (so far as surface and undersea craft are
concerned) by mutual agreement, a nation's naval strength would
then be proportional to her merchant marine.
It is perfectly obvious that should the United States agree to
do away with the capital ship and later on, perhaps, subscribe to
the principle of doing away with all naval surface and undersea
craft, except for police purposes, her naval power would rise or


  p. 2424 (#1388)                      

2424
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings (Dec.
fall with the fortunes of her merchant marine. Should the Ameri-
can merchant marine retrograde relatively to the position it occu-
pied in the years following the Civil War to the period preceding
the World War, our naval strength, so far as the craft in question
are concerned, would be relatively small. This point was fully
understood by Messrs. Hughes, Lodge, Underwood, and Root at
the Washington Conference, but should still be borne in mind by
America in considering the trend of thought that is now appearing
for doing away with the capital ship. If the latter is done away
with for the new reasons advanced, the next step that might
logically be expected would be the limitation, by agreement, of all
surface and undersea craft. This entire question seems to hinge
upon the size and efficiency of the American Merchant Marine, so
far as it relates to surface and sub-surface craft.
Gas
The subject of gas warfare is believed to be of
such importance to the naval service that the
Warfare
following editorial on this subject, reprinted from
The Military Surgeon, merits careful thought:
Will prohibition prohibit when it goes counter to the natural desires
and immemorial customs of mankind is a question broader than that of the
use of alcoholic beverages. It was proposed to try it out in modification of
the laws of war by an international agreement to prohibit the use of poison-
ous gases in warfare at the Washington Conference on Limitation of Arma-
ments. The plenipotentiaries of five great powers, the United States, Great
Britain, France, Italy, and Japan, declared their assent to be bound by such
an agreement and invited all other civilized nations to adhere to it. This
agreement was signed on February 12, 1922, but before it became binding
it had to be ratified by the governments of the five powers and these rati-
fications deposited in Washington. Singularly enough not one of the powers
has yet sent in its ratification. The question is now under discussion by
the League of Nations.
The attitude of the civilized nations toward this question is much like
that of a well-known and often married actor toward matrimony, who ex-
plained his ninth wedding as a triumph of hope over experience. The Peace
Conference at The Hague in 1907 resolved that the use of poison gases was
inhumane and they should not be used in shells. One delegate strongly
opposed this resolution and he was the distinguished representative of the
United States, Admiral Mahan, who stated his objections as follows:
The objection that a machine of war is barbarous has always been raised
against new weapons, which were nevertheless finally adopted. In the
Middle Ages it was firearms which were denounced as cruel. Later, shells,
and more recently, torpedoes have been denounced. It seems to me that it
cannot be proved that shells with asphyxiating gases are inhumane or
unnecessarily cruel machines of war, and that they cannot produce decisive
results. I represent a people that is animated by a lively desire to make


  p. 2425 (#1389)                      

1925]
2425
Secretary's Notes
warfare more humane, but which may nevertheless find itself forced to
wage war; therefore it is a question of not depriving itself through hastily
adopted resolutions of means of which it could later avail itself with good
results.
England and Germany supported Mahan and did not sign The Hague
agreement at once, but both did so later.
This is as sound common sense now as when it was spoken. It was not
the first official pronouncement by us in the same tenor. The Secretary of
States, Mr. John Hay, in his instructions to the American delegates to the
first Peace Congress at The Hague in 1899 said:
The expediency of restraining the inventive genius of our people in the
direction of devising means of defense is by no means clear; and consider-
ing the temptations to which men and nations may be exposed in a time of
conflict, it is doubtful if an international agreement to this end would be
effective. The dissent of a single powerful nation might render it alto-
gether nugatory. The delegates are, therefore, enjoined not to give the
weight of their influence to the promotion of projects the realization of
which is so uncertain.
Since these great men spoke what they foresaw as probable has come to
pass. The German nation had not been a year at war before it was decided
that, in spite of its agreement, it would not, in the words of the Admiral,
deprive itself through hastily adopted resolutions of means of which it
could avail itself with good results. On April 22, 1915, they suddenly re-
leased a cloud of chlorine gas along two miles of the British front with so
much effect that if they had realized its efficacy and pushed boldly forward
it was generally admitted that they could have easily broken through. Then
the Allies with all the disadvantages of surprise and unpreparedness hastened
to arm themselves with and against this new weapon.
For what reason, with this instance before our eyes, should we now pro-
pose to place ourselves in a position of disadvantage by becoming a party
to any such agreement? It is surely not with the cynical intention to imitate
the German lack of faith and use it should it later appear to be to our
advantage. But we cannot by failing to be prepared against Chemical War-
fare place ourselves at the mercy of an enemy who is unscrupulous. Yet
to be prepared exposes us to the suspicion of bad faith, and the charge that
we are preparing weapons which we have pledged ourselves not to use. In
fact though we have a Chemical Warfare Service we are not preparing. As
shown by the Chief of that Service, General Fries, in a recent able address
in Boston, we are standing still and for each dollar spent on the Army less
than the value of one of Postmaster General New's new half cent stamps
is spent on Chemical Warfare. As long as we are on record as opposed
to gas warfare it is quite unlikely that we will get adequate appropriations
for this important arm which caused over 31 per cent of our battle casualties
in the World War.
The arguments against the use of poisonous gases are apparently of
pacifist origin and based on mushy sentimentality rather than scientific or
historical facts. It is far from being more dreadful and inhumane than
the other agencies of war. There is no reason to think that the sufferings
of its victims are greater than those of the wounded, and the mortality is


  p. 2426 (#1390)                      

2426
[Dec.
U. S. Naval Institute Proceedings
certainly far less. Gilchrist has shown that the deaths among our casual-
ties from gas were only one-twelfth those from other weapons. Also
the after results of crippling, disfiguring, and suffering are infinitely less.
It is, therefore, so far as the combatants are concerned, the most humane
of weapons. The visions of whole cities overwhelmed by poison gases are
rather for the entertainment of the credulous than the guidance of states-
men. If an enemy chooses to attack the noncombatant population he has
at his disposal high explosive shells and air bombs which with fire and
tumbling ruins are certainly destructive enough, yet we do not hear of
propositions to give up their use. We might give our pacifist friends as
regards Chemical Warfare the reply that the Plantagenet King gave his
gentle queen when she pleaded for mercy for the starving inhabitants of
besieged Calais :
"Lady, war hath ever three handmaidens, famine, pestilence, and the
sword, and the gentlest of these is famine.”
Of the handmaidens of modern war, gas is certainly the gentlest and
most humane.
Inquiries have been made by mem-
The
bers as to where they might obtain
Constitution-Guerriere
copies of the colored picture of the
Picture
Constitution-Guerriere Engagement,
which appeared as the frontispiece of the October PROCEEDINGS.
Four original paintings by Thomas Birch, showing the different
phases of this engagement, hang in the office of the Commandant
of Midshipmen, Bancroft Hall. Our frontispiece showed one of
these. The four paintings are designated, for convenience, as
follows:
No. 1—The Engagement No. 3—Falling Astern
No. 2—The Battle
No. 4—Total Wreck
Anyone wishing a colored photograph of the above may obtain
either one copy or a set of four in either of two sizes, framed or
unframed, postpaid, by sending a check or money order to:
E. J. COLLERAN, 17 Revell Street, Annapolis, Maryland.
The colored photographic copies are furnished in oil colors (with
burnished gold frames in case they are desired).
Size 12 x 15" Size 11 x 1!"
Framed —set of four....... $18.00
$15.00
“ —single picture ..... 5.00
4.00
Unframed-set of four. ...... 12.00
10.00
-single picture ..... 3.50
2.75
H. A. BALDRIDGE,
Captain, U. S. Navy, Secretary-Treasurer


  p. 2427 (#1391)                      

SPECIAL NOTICE
NAVAL INSTITUTE PRIZE Essay, 1926
A prize of two hundred dollars with a gold medal, and a life member-
ship in the Institute (unless the author is already a life member, in which
case he will receive the commuted value thereof), is offered by the Naval
Institute for the best essay submitted on any subject pertaining to the naval
profession.
The following rules will govern this competition :
1. The award of the prize to be made by the Board of Control, voting
by ballot and without knowledge of the names of the competitors.
2. Each competitor to send his essay to the Secretary-Treasurer
in a sealed envelope marked “Prize Essay Contest.” The name of the
writer shall not appear on the essay, but instead thereof a motto. Accom-
panying the essay a separate sealed envelope will be sent to the Secretary-
Treasurer, with the motto on the outside and the writer's name and
motto inside. This envelope will not be opened until after the decision of
the board. Essays must be received on or before January 1, 1926.
3. In addition to the “Naval Institute Prize," one or more essays may
receive “Honorable Mention," if of sufficient merit to justify that award;
or, in the event that no essay is adjudged of sufficient merit to receive the
"Prize," the best essay submitted may receive "Honorable Mention" in
lieu thereof.
4. In case one or more essays receive “Honorable Mention" the writers
thereof will each receive a prize, the amount of such awards to be de-
cided by the Board of Control in each case.
5. Announcement of awards will be made as soon as practicable after
January 1, 1926.
6. Essays awarded the “Naval Institute Prize" or "Honorable Men-
tion" will be published in the Naval INSTITUTE PROCEEDINGS as soon as
practicable. Essays not awarded a prize may be published at the discretion
of the Board of Control, and the writers of such articles shall be com-
pensated at the established rate for articles not submitted in competition.
7. Articles should be limited to twenty (20) printed pages in the PRO-
CEEDINGS (approximately 8,000 words), but shorter articles will receive
equal consideration.
8. In the event of the prize being awarded to the winner of a previous
year, a gold clasp suitably engraved will be given in lieu of the medal.
9. All essays must be typewritten, and submitted in duplicate.
H. A. BALDRIDGE,
Captain, U.S.N., Secretary-Treasurer.


  p. 2428 (#1392)                      

SUGGESTED TOPICS FOR ARTICLES
Aviation—Its Present Status and Probable Influence on Strategy and Tac-
tics.
The Anti-Aircraft Problem from the Navy's Viewpoint.
Co-ordination of the Naval Air Force with Other Naval Forces.
Naval Bases, Their Number, Location, and Equipment.
Military Character.
The Relation of Naval Communication to Naval Strategy.
Proportion of National Budget Which Should be Devoted to Naval Ex-
penditures.
The Necessity for Having a Fleet.
Organization of Fleet for War.
The Offensive and Defensive in Gas Warfare.
The Best Protection from Gas Attack.
Naval Gunnery of Today, the Problems of Long Range and Indirect Fire.
Physical Factors in Efficiency.
The Relation between the Navy and the Merchant Marine.
America as a Maritime Nation.
Relation of the Medical Department to a Plans Division.
The Place of Mines in Future Naval Warfare.
A Mobilization Program for the Future.
Morale Building.
The Mission of the Naval Academy in the Molding of Character.
How to Best Educate and Convert the American People to the Need of a
Strong National Defense.
The Navy in Battle; Operations of Air, Surface, and Underwater Craft.
Navy Spirit-Its Value to the Service and to the Country.
Based on a Major Ship Strength of Eighteen Dreadnaughts, What Do You
Consider a Balanced Navy?
The Future of the Naval Officers' Profession.
The Naval Officer as a Diplomat.
Is the Present System of Training and Education for Officers Satisfactory
and Sufficient?
The Rôle of the Navy at Peace.
Training Naval Personnel During the Next Ten Years.
Six Years of Promotion by Selection in U. S. Navy. Its Effect Upon
Discipline and Morale.
The Employment of Retired Officers Separated from the Service by Reason
of the Age in Grade Feature of the Existing Selection Law.
What Measures Should be Adopted to Create and Maintain a Balanced
Enlisted Personnel of 120,000 Men?
Our Future Naval Policy Based on Existing International Treaties.
The Future Naval Continental Shore Establishments.
Shore Duty for Enlisted Men.
The Limits of Specialization in Naval Training,
The Effect of the 5-5-3 Ratio Upon U. S. Naval Strategy in the Eastern
Pacific.
Armor or High Speed for Large Surface Vessels ?
Airplanes and Submarines Versus Super-Dreadnaughts.
The Navy's Relation to the Nation in World Affairs.


  p. 2429 (#1393)                      

INDEX TO VOLUME 51
Figures in bold type indicate whole number: light figures following indicate page number.
| Aeronautics.-Cont'd
Accidents to vessels.
Loening amphibian plane successful
French “Courbet" has fatal boiler acci.
(Illus.). 267, 850.
dent, 1924. 263, 116.
Navy to get long distance flying boat
Administration, U. S. Navy.
for heavy loads. 263, 148.
See U. S. Navy Administration; U. S. New (1925) British airships. 264, 328.
Navy Department; U. S. Navy
New naval air cruiser, PB type, 1925.
Organization.
264, 327.
Advertisements.
Prize ad for 1925 Lucky Bag. Front
Bombing.
cover No. 269.
See Bombing.
Aerial warfare.
Commercial.
Ballou, Sidney. Limitations of aircraft Commercial air transport. 271, 1768.
in naval warfare. 267, 746.
Dr. Eckner on airships in commerce.
Gautreau, J. B. Consequences of the 264, 329.
triumph of the Zeppelins. 263, 117.
Progress of civil aviation in Europe,
Haw, J. C. Anti-aircraft defense. 274, 1925. 274, 2382.
2383.
Henderson, Sir W. H. Airship offensive.
Dirigibles.
271, 1756.
Henderson, Sir W. H. Airship offensive.
Johnson, A. W. Aviation in coast 271, 1756.
defense. 271, 1652.
Russell, Sir H. Flying ships. 273, 2200.
Moffett, W. A. Some aviation funda Warlick, W. W. Letter regarding article
mentals (Illus.) 272, 1871.
in Washington Post on lighter-than-
Wead, F. W. Discussion of "Limita air aircraft carriers. 269, 1241.
tions of aircraft in naval warfare." Airship controversy-1925. 274, 2361.
271, 1745.
Some British views on airships. 274,
Aeronautics.
2342.
Castex, R. Effect of aircraft on future
warships. 263, 154.
Motors.
Johnson, A. W. Aviation in coast Wilson, E. E. Aircraft engine progress.
defense. 271, 1652.
266, 657.
Sherman, F. Naval aircraft in inter Packard engine. 269, 1288.
national law. 274, 2259.
"Propulseur trompe" for airplanes. 273,
Standley, W. H. Discussion of "Aviatica 2202.
in coast defense." 271, 1741.
Superchargers. 272, 1994.
10th annual report of N.A.C.A. 265,493. Wright "cyclone"' 400-H.P. engine
Aircraft.
(Illus.). 267, 855.
Chandler, C de F. Airships for military
Pilots
purposes. 270, 1531.
Baldridge, H. A. Aviation at Naval
Airplane replacements--need for a Academy. (Illus.) 271, 1632.
reserve. 273, 2196.
Davis, R. Ġ. Some physical aspects of
British flying boat carries crew of 12. Aying. 269, 1225.-
265, 461.
Air Ministry's exhibit at Wembly
Cierva giroplane. 267, 852.
(testing pilots). 271, 1758.
Civil and military men. 271, 1769.
Description of Rohrbach all-metal flying
Records.
boat. 268, 1076.
Arnold, H. H. Performance of future
Illustration of Rohrbach all-metal fly airplanes. 270, 1522.
ing boat. 268, 1027.
Pulitzer trophy races, 1925, 274, 2379.


  p. 2430 (#1394)                      

2430
[Dic
Inder to Volume 51
U.S.
Aeronautics.--Cont'd
Aeronautics. U. S. Navy.--Cont'd
Moffett, W. A. Some aviation funda
Round-the-World Flights
mentals (Illus.). 272, 1871.
Barker, F. V. How the navy helped Sherman, F. P. Discussion of "Sea
them home. (Illus.) 270, 1415.
going aircraft." 263, 103.
Sherman, F. P. Main battery elevation
Schools and Training
and fighting aircraft. 266, 600.
Baldridge, H. A. Aviation at Naval Vroom, G. B. Strategic value of the
Academy (Illus.). 271, 1632.
aircraft carrier. (Illus.) 263, 78.
Roby, J. Í. Naval aviation training. Wiley, H. V. Celestial cruise (U. S
271, 1646.
airship Los Angeles). 266, 604.
Wilson, E. E. Discussion of "Inde
France
pendent air force." 267, 807.
Progress of aeronautics in France, 1925. Wood, Ralph. Sanity in aviation. 269
272, 1977.
1133.
Extracts from report of Special Board
Germany
1925. 267, 856.
Training 2000 pilots. 267, 826.
Million dollar sea plane order placed
265, 496.
Great Britain
Naval expert urges enormous dirigible
Air Ministry's exhibits at Wembly. (1925). 265, 481.
271, 1758.
Navy plans 300 planes and 5 carriers
Britain's air force, 1925. 266, 656.
(1925). 267, 847.
British airship policy. 268, 1062.
Navy to have 23 pursuit planes. (1925
His Majesty's airships. 267, 813.
264, 326.
New (1925) British airships. 264, 328. U. S. Naval air policy centered o
planes operating from fleet. 263, 141
Air Board, U. S.
Bingham, H. Commercial airports and Personnel of. 274, 2370.
airways. 272, 1990.
Air flow.
Cook, M. G. Proposal for an inde See Magnus effect; Rotor ship; Win
pendent air service. 264, 215.
rotors.
Fairlamb, G. R. Independent air force. Airplane carriers.
265, 381.
Vroom, G. B. Strategic value of the
Kieffer, H. M. Control of the seas by aircraft carrier. (Illus.) 263, 78.
an air department? 274, 2265.
Warlick, W. W. Letter regarding artid
Warner, E. P. Air policy for U. S. 267, in Washington Post on lighter-tha?
722.
air aircraft carriers. 269, 1241.
Wilson, E. E. Unified procurement of British warships carry 80 planes. 264
government aircraft. 272, 1933.
616.
The aeronautical crisis, 1925. 274, 2377. New U. S. airplane carriers, 267, 848
Detroit takes off. 269, 1286.
Progress on U. S. airplane carriers. 264
Gen. Patrick on independent air force. 306.
270, 1518.
Airplane catapult.
The Mitchell plan. 274, 2372.
An explosive airplane catapult. 264
Personnel of President's Air Board, 326.
1925. 274, 2370.
New type catapult. 266, 674.
Wilbur says Coolidge is opposed to Photo of catapult in action. 266, 614
unified air force. 266, 657.
“Airplane vs battleship."
National air policy. 268, 1074.
See Battleship; Aerial warfare.
Air policy for U. S.
U. S. Navy
E. P. Warner. 267, 722.
Baldridge, H. A. Aviation at Naval | Air whistle. See Whistles.
Academy (Illus.). 271, 1632.
Airships.
Cook, M. G. Proposal for an inde See Aeronautics. Dirigibles.
pendent air service. 264, 215.
Akers, G. W.
Fairlamb, G. R. Independent air force. Discussion of "Naval Reserve training'
265, 381.
268, 1024.
McIntyre, M. H. Naval aircraft in- | Alloys.
vestigation, 1924. 263, 145.
High temperature alloys. 265, 484.


  p. 2431 (#1395)                      

1925]
2431
Index to Volume 51
Allen, E. G.
| Australia. Navy.
Discussion of “Our system of fleet Cruiser exchange between Brit. navy
training." 267, 804.
and Australian navy, 273, 2176.
Aluminum covered grate-bars.
Auto-giro.
Successful experiments with. 269, 1276. See Aeronautics. Aircraft.
America (S.S.).
Auxiliary vessels, engineering economy on
Photo. 274, 2238.
R. R. Smith. 273, 2101.
Amphibious warfare.
Aviation at the Naval Academy.
Pye, W. S. Joint army and navy H. A. Baldridge. 271, 1632.
Operations.
Aviation, Naval.
Pt. 1—262, 1963
See Aeronautics. U. S. Navy.
Pt. 2-263, 1
Pt. 3—264, 233
Pt. 4–265, 386
Bacon, Sir Reginald.
Pt. 5–266, 589
Defends Jellicoe in book criticising
Pt. 6—268, 975
Beatty's Jutland tactics. 264, 289.
Russell, Sir H. Amphibian operations. Bacteria, use of in war prohibited by Arms
274, 2403.
Traffic Convention. 270, 1566.
Anti-aircraft defense.
Bagby, Oliver W.
J. C. Haw. 274, 2383.
Naval mining and mines. 274, 2244.
Anti-aircraft guns.
Badger, 0. C.
Defense against air raids. 267, 854.
History repeats. (1st hon. mention,
Haw, J. C. Anti-aircraft defense. 274.
1925). 267, 707.
2383.
Baker, Wilder D.
Aorangi (motor ship).
Submarine capabilities and limitations.
Performance of. 271, 1776.
270, 1398.
Arbitration.
Baldridge, Harry A.
Brandt, E. S. R. Armament by example
Aviation at the Naval Academy. (Illus.)
and arbitration. 269, 1152.
271, 1632.
Are you worth it?
Ballistics.
W. E. Brown. 274, 2328.
Armament by example and arbitration.
- Wright, W. L. Vest pocket ballistics.
E. S. R. Brandt. 269, 1152.
273, 2138.
Armor.
Ballou, Sidney.
Musser, N.B. Lessons of Jutland affect-
Limitations of aircraft in naval warfare.
ing design of turret armor. 266, 562.
267, 746.
Arms Traffic Conference, 1925.
Barker, F. V.
See Geneva Arms Traffic Conf., 1925. How the navy helped them home.
Arnold, H. H.
(Illus.) 270, 1415.
Performance of future airplanes. 270, Battle cruisers.
1522.
Bywater, H. C., and Prendergast,
Array against sovereignty.
Maurice. Post-treaty naval design.
W. T. Cluverius. 272, 1916.
273, 2135.
Asia.
Russell, Sir H. New cruisers. (British.)
Simonds, F. H. British see war in Far 273, 2180.
East. 266, 678.
French battle cruisers (1925). 269, 1260.
Astronomy.
Warships of the future. 273, 2209.
Bauersfeld, I. W. Great planetarium of See also Battleships; Cruisers.
the Munich Museum. (Illus.) 267,761. Battleships.
Correction, 268, 1105.
Badger, 0. C. History repeats (1st hon.
Wood, A. N. Homemade planisphere. mention, 1925). 267, 707.
271, 1711.
Castex, R. Effect of aircraft on future
Asturias, (motor ship).
warships. 263, 154.
Description. 272, 2010.
Castex, R. Expert sees end of giant
Motor liner Asturias. 271, 1773.
dreadnaughts. 265, 467.
Photo showing Diesel engines. 271, Russell, Sir H. Smaller fighting ships.
1753.
274, 2349.
Australia. Asiatic policy.
Russell, Sir H. Will the capital ship
Russell, Sir H. Australia's appre pass? 270, 1548.
hensions. 272, 2021.
Battleship annihilators. 268, 1072,


  p. 2432 (#1396)                      

2432
(Dec.
Index to Volume 51
Bombing:
Battleships.--Cont'd
Battleship supreme over planes. 266,
636.
Capital ship problems: Adm. Sir W. H.
Henderson's views. 274, 2347.
A champion of the battleship. 263, 110.
Future capital ships, 271, 1754.
Maintenance costs. 273, 2188.
Naval architects see vastly improved
battleships. 265, 500.
New British battleships mark new era.
265, 462.
Warships of the future. 273, 2209.
See also Battlecruisers.
Bauersfeld, Ing. W.
Great planetarium of Munich museum.
(Illus.) 267, 761.
Correction, 268, 1105.
Baughman, C. C.
U. S. occupation of Dominican Re-
public. 274, 2306.
Beatty, Sir David.
Jutland tactics criticised. 264, 289.
Bellevue (D. C.) Research Laboratory.
Foley, Paul. Naval research laboratory.
272, 1925.
Benson, W. H., jt. author.
See Burkhead, L. H., and Benson, W. H.
Bettis, Cyrus.
Pulitzer Trophy race, 1925, won by
Bettis. 274, 2379.
· Wins 1925 Pulitzer air races. Photo. 274,
2340.
Biles, Sir John.
Steam or oil engines for fast ships?
269, 1278.
Billingsley, (U. S. S.).
Photo of Billingsley towing plane
“Boston.” 270, 1424.
Bingham, Hiram.
Commercial airports and airways. 272,
1990.
Binoculars.
McCracken, Alan R. Selection and use
of binoculars. 270, 1446.
Blandy, W. H. P.
Possible improvements in our gunnery
training. 271, 1696.
“Blood is thicker than water."
Palmer, H. C. Discussion of the Pei-ho
episode. 267, 801.
Copy of Tattnall's report of the inci-
dent. 269, 1243.
(Origin of the phrase] W.C.Tyler. 263,91.
Boiler explosions.
French Courbet fatal accident, 1924.
263, 116.
Boilers.
Brunler submerged fame boiler. 267,
840,
Russell, Sir H. The Washington experi-
ment. 266, 675.
Schuyler, G. L. Bombing radius as
affected by wind. 274, 2242.
Simpson, B. W. Bombing accuracy.
273, 2197.
Wile, F. W. Washington bombing test
report. 266, 655.
Battleship annihilators. 268, 1072.
Report of Board regarding bombing
tests on U. S. S. Washington. 266,
636.
Bombing radius as affected by wind.
G. L. Schuyler. 274, 2242.
Book reviews.
Alden, C. S., and Earle, R. Makers of
naval tradition. 273, 2224.
Balincourt, Comd. de. Flottes de combal.
266, 697.
Berkeley, L. M. North star navigation.
265, 517.
Bodilly, R. B. Interaction between
vessels. 266, 692
Bywater, H. C. Great Pacific war-
1931. 272, 1988.
Colcord, J. C., comp. roll and go. 266,
695.
Cornet, C. Cosmographie et navigation.
268, 1104.
Cugle, C. H. Practical navigation. 265,
Custance, Sir R. Study of war, 266, 688.
Edmunds, S. E. The lawless law of
nations. 274, 2414.
Essex Inst. Old-time ships of Salem.
268, 1104.
Farrère and Chack. Combats et batailles
sur mer. 271, 1806.
Gleaves, A., ed. Life of an American
sailor, Rear Adm. Emory. 274, 2419.
Goodwin, H. B. Companion to the
azimuth tables. 272, 2045.
Green, Fitzhugh. Our naval heritage.
273, 2218.
Hausmann, E. Dynamo-electric machin-
ery. 264, 353.
Hurd, A. Merchant Navy, 2 vols. 267,
882.
Jane's Aircraft, 1923. 271, 1813.
Jane's Fighting Ships, 1924. 266, 694.
Japan. Hydrographic Dept. New
altitude and azimuth tables. 267, 886.
Judge, A. W. Testing of high speed
internal combustion engines. 270, 1569.
Lewis, C. L. Famous American naval
officers. 264, 350.
Marsh, T. A. Combustion in the power
plant. 266, 696,
516.


  p. 2433 (#1397)                      

1925)
2433
Index to Volume 51
Bywater, Hector C.--Cont'd
American fleet outranges British. 270,
1517.
American naval bill, 1925. 266, 630.
British naval plans criticised at home.
272, 1970.
Cruiser strength vital to Gt. Britain.
263, 107.
Dutch East Indies: defense. 269, 1303.
Great Pacific war, Constable & Co..
book review. 272, 1988.
Gun elevation issue should be settled
by commission. 264, 311.
Gunnery in battle of Jutland. 271, 1780.
Hawaiian maneuvers and Japan's naval
policy. 265, 474.
Hawaii's naval need. 271, 1767.
Impressions of French seapower. 271,
1762.
Japan's giant 3,000-ton destroyers. 266,
629.
Shearer's charges in suit called absurd.
264, 286.
World-wide activity in naval con-
struction. 263, 156.
Bywater, Hector Ć., and Prendergast,
Maurice.
Post-treaty naval design. 273, 2125.
Book reviews.--Cont'd
Meigs, J. F. Story of the Seaman, 2 vols.
265, 514.
Middlebrook, L. F. Maritime Connecti-
cut during American revolution. 268,
1103.
Moore, Sir Alan. Last days of mast and
sail. 273, 2226.
Nicolai, W. German secret service. 268,
1098.
Norris, W. B. Annapolis: its colonial
and naval story. 273, 2223.
Paine, R. D. Joshua Barney. 263, 173.
Parmalee, M. Blockade and sea power.
263, 166.
Selfridge, T. O. Memoirs. 263, 166.
Westinghouse Elec. & Mfg. Co. Cata-
logue, 1925-26. 268, 1102.
Boris, King of Bulgaria.
Attempt at his assassination. 268, 1090.
Bowers, J. T.
Discussion of "Basic education of naval
officers." 268, 1022.
Brandt, E. S. R.
Armament by example and arbitration.
269, 1152.
Brandt, George E.
Discussion of “Mooring board prob-
lem." 274, 2339.
Maury's genius shown in old letter. 269,
1197.
Brazil. Navy.
12 new warships for Brazil. 264, 340.
Breckel, Harry F.
Naval radio progress. (1925). 267, 790.
Bridgeman, w. c.
Named first lord of Admiralty. 264,
288.
Brigham, C. C.
Psychological tests. 267, 875.
Brown, W. E.
Are you worth it? 274, 2328.
Brunler submerged flame boiler.
Description. 267, 840.
Buckau (rotor ship).
See Flettner rotor ship.
Bunts, F. M.
Discussion of “Basic education of
officers." 268, 1021.
Bureau system, U. S. Navy Dept.
Fisher, C. W. Proposed administrative
changes in U.S. Navy Dept. 265, 357.
Burkhead, L. H., and Benson, W. H.
Star identification diagram. 271, 1667.
Byrd, Richard E.
Flying over the polar sea. (Maps and
illus.) 270, 1319.
Bywater, Hector C.
American and Jap. navies compared.
264, 306.
Campbell, E. H.
Promotion of officer personnel. 264, 183.
Castex, R. (Fr. Navy).
Effect of aircraft on future warships.
263, 154.
Expert sees end of giant dreadnaughts.
265, 467.
Catapult, airplane.
See Airplane catapult.
Chadwick, D. V.
Discussion of “Administrative changes."
266, 610.
Chandler, C. de F.
Airships for military purposes. 270, 1527.
Chapel, U. S. Naval Academy.
Night photo of. 273, 2049.
Character.
Eller, E. M. Three craftsmen and the
part of the Naval Academy in the
mould of a man. 273, 2049.
Charlton, A. M.
Ship ventilation in 1741. 265, 437.
Chemical warfare.
Walton, D. C. Gas mask and the next
war. 269, 1172.
Poison gas prohibited by Arms Traffic
Convention. 270, 1566.
Gas Warfare 274, 2423
Chief of Naval operations, U. S. Navy
Dept. Annual report, 1924. 264, 304.


  p. 2434 (#1398)                      

2434
[Dec.
Index to Volume 51
China.
Corvoy.
Anti-foreign disturbances, June, 1925. Stirling, Yates. Bridge across the
270, 1568.
Atlantic. 271, 1669. See also correc-
Chinese tariff conference, Peking, 1925. tion 273, 2173.
274, 2412
Cook, Cary W.
Civil War, 1924.
Merchant ship subsidy systems. 271,
1787.
Wu Pei-fu surrenders to General Feng.
National merchant marine policy. 269,
263, 165.
1298.
Description
Cook, M. G.
Cotten, L. A. Other days in Kiang-Su.
Proposal for independent air service.
264, 215.
(Illus.) 268, 952.
Corinth canal.
Foreign Relations
Photo of. 265, 421.
China turning to Russia (1925). 272, Corsairs.
2039.
I. W. V. Mendl. 268, 1001.
Conflict of cultures. 273, 2216.
Cory, C. and Son.
Cieiva giroplane.
Issues new ship's telegraph bulletin.
Description. 267, 852.
265, 518.
Cluverius, Wat T.
Cost of battleship maintenance.
Array against sovereignty. 272, 1916.
273, 2188.
Coal.
Cotten, Lyman A.
See Fuel.
Other days in Kiang-Su. (Illus.) 268,
Coast defense.
952.
Johnson, A. W. Aviation in coast Courbet (Fr. battleship).
defense. 271, 1652.
Fatal boiler accident 1924. 263, 116.
Standley, W. H. Discussion of “Avia Court of Inquiry.
tion in coast defense.” 271, .1741. Gatch, T. L. Abuse of Court of Inquiry,
Coffin Air Transport Co.
267, 797.
Plans of promoters. 269, 1286.
Coxe, Lewis.
Columbo.
Mathew Fontaine Maury. 261, 1192.
British naval base--Columbo. 263, 111.
Craven, F. S.
Columbus, Christopher.
Excellence of naval material. 271, 1573.
Gulliver, L. J. Admiral Columbus. 263, Cruisers.
96.
British cruiser, 1925. 273, 2176.
Combat methods of Japanese.
French light cruisers and flotilla leaders.
C. E. Kilbourne. 272, 2015.
274, 2355.
Communism.
Future type of cruiser. 270, 1499.
Cluverius, W. T. Array against sover New Italian cruisers. 265, 504.
eignty. 272, 1916.
New Italian scout cruisers, 1925. 270,
Comparative naval statistics.
1508.
See Navies; naval statistics.
Problems in cruiser design. 263, 149.
Compressors.
See also Battlecruisers.
A new industry-manufacture of com- | Customs, Naval.
pressor lubricants. 274, 2405.
See Naval customs.
Condensers.
Gaster, G. E. Small plant condensers.
266, 650.
Constantinople.
Dahlgren, John Adolphus (1809-1870).
Field, R. Š. Destroyer in the near East.
Earle, Ralph. John Adolphus Dahlgren.
(Illus.) Pt. 1, 264, 246; Pt. 2, 265,400.
(Port.) 265, 424.
View of harbor. 264, 248.
“Dacia” incident.
Constitution, (U. S. S.).
Wainwright, Richard. Dacia dilemma.
Krafft, H. F. New lease of life for
270, 1452.
"Old Ironsides." 272, 1938.
Dalmatia.
“Old Ironsides" campaign. 271, 1766. Field, R. S. Spalato, 1919. (Illus.)
“Constitution” and “Guerriere."
267, 775.
Reproduction of painting, “Engagement | Dardanelles campaign.
between Constitution and Guerrier." | Miles, S. Notes on Dardanelles cam-
272, 1817.
paign. (Maps.) 268, 1027.


  p. 2435 (#1399)                      

1925)
2435
Index to Volume 51
Donald, H. G.
Operation of a destroyer at full power.
263, 15.
Drill.
Allen, E. G. Discussion of “Our system
of feet training." 267, 804.
Willson, Russell. Our system of fleet
training. 266, 572.
Du Bose, W. G.
Discussion on "Proposed administrative
changes in Navy Dept." 265, 455.
Dunn, Lucius C.
Morocco-a diplomatic complex. 263,
28.
Dutch East Indies.
Bywater, H. C. Dutch East Indies:
defense. 269, 1303.
Dutton, Benjamin.
Review of Berkeley's North star navi-
gation. 265, 517.
Review of Cugle's Practical navigation.
265, 516.
Review of Japanese Hydrographic Dept.
“New altitude and azimuih tables."
267, 886.
Dyson, C. W.
Discussion of “Diesels for capital ships."
269, 1236.
Davis, R. G.
Some physical aspects of flying. 269,
1225.
Debts, international.
See International finance.
Dellinger, J. H.
Survey of current progress in radio,
1925. 267, 865.
Denver (U. S. S.).
Lands 150 officers and men at Ceiba,
Honduras. 268, 1096.
Depth finders.
Navy ocean study aided by science.
264, 336.
Destroyer division commander's inspec-
tion. V. H. Godfrey. 274, 2292.
Destroyer engineer in battle.
G. R. Fairlamb. 274, 2289.
Destroyer in the Near East.
R. S. Field. Pt. 1, 264, 246; Pt. 2, 265,
400.
Destroyers.
Bywater, H. C. Japan's giant 3,000-ton
destroyers. 266, 629.
Fairlamb, G. R. Destroyer engineer in
battle. 274, 2289.
Gautreau, J. B. Qualities of the 2400-
ton French destroyers. 263, 115.
Thurber, H. R. Some notes on destroyer
handling alongside. 269, 1202.
British post-treaty flotilla leaders. 264,
288.
French destroyer trials 1925. 274, 2354.
French destroyers and light cruisers
(1925). 269, 1258.
Diesel engines.
See Internal combustion engines.
Dinger, H. C.
Discussion on “Diesel engines for
capital ships." 271, 1738.
Discussion of "Excellence of Naval
Material.” 273, 2167.
Discussion of “Proposed changes in
Navy Dept." 270, 1489.
Disarmament.
Brandt, E. S. R. Armament by example
and arbitration. 269, 1152.
Russell, Sir H. Peace without security.
267, 814.
Discipline.
Snyder, H. R. If I were to do my
service over again. 263, 59.
Dobbin (U. S. S.).
Illustration. 263, 107.
Docks.
Royal dockyards, 1925. 272, 1972.
Dominican Republic.
Baughman, C. C. U. S. occupation of
Dominican Republic. 274, 2306.
Earle, Ralph.
John Adolphus Dahlgren (1809-1870).
(Port.). 265, 424.
Review of Norris' Annapolis: its
colonial and naval story. 273, 2223.
East, The.
See Asia.
Eberle, E. W.
Elements of sea power and future of the
navy, 272, 1832.
Eckner, Hugo. .
On airships in commerce. 264, 329.
Eclipses.
Wiley, H. V. Celestial cruise. 266, 604.
Economics.
Unemployment in Gt. Britain, 1925.
271, 1755.
Education.
Some aspects of (technical] education.
269, 1305.
Education, Naval.
See Naval education,
Efficiency reports.
Hart, T. C. Discussion on "Com-
missioned personnel problems." 264,
280.
Effingham, (H. M. S.).
I Most costly British cruiser. 265, 461.


  p. 2436 (#1400)                      

2436
[Dec.
Index to Volume 51
1819.
Ejectors.
Fleet training.
Ejectors for blowing gas from guns Willson, Russell. Our system of fleet
tested. 265, 497.
training. 266, 572.
Electric propulsion of vessels.
Flettner, Von Anton.
Great future for electric propulsion. Flettner, rotor ship. 266, 663.
269, 1274.
Flettner rotor ship.
Eller, Ernest M.
Flettner, Von Anton. Flettner rotor
Three craftsmen and the part of the ship. 266, 663.
Naval Academy in the mould of Discredited by German ship owners.
a man. 273, 2049.
267, 829.
Engineering materials.
Rules of the road for rotor ships. 269,
High temperature materials. 265, 484. 1265.
Engineering training.
Wind power ship, Buckau. (Illus.) 264,
(Brit.) naval engineering training. 269, 321.
1256.
See also Magnus effect; Rotor ships:
Engines.
Wing rotors.
Biles, Sir J. Steam or oil engines for Flettner rudder.
fast ships? 269, 1278.
See Rudders.
European war, 1914-18.
Flying Cloud (clipper).
Miles, S. Notes on Dardanelles cam Photo of model of Flying Cloud. 271,
paign. (Maps.) 268, 1027.
Flying over the polar sea.
Naval.
R. E. Byrd. 270, 1319.
Mendl, I. W. V. Corsairs. 268, 1001. Flying, some physical aspects.
R. G. Davis. 269, 1225.
Transport service
Fog signals.
Stirling, Yates. Bridge across the Řadio fog signals. 264, 335.
Atlant:c. 271, 1669. See also Correc- Foley, Paul.
tion 273, 2173.
Naval research laboratory. (Illus.) 272,
Evans, Waldo.
1925.
Development and growth of the Amer- | Folk, Winston.
ican navy. (Illus.) 272, 1897.
Basic education of officers. 264, 274.
Excellence of naval material.
Ford, Henry.
F. S. Craven. 271, 1573.
Bid for Shipping Board's scrap ships
recommended for acceptance. 271,
1790.
Ford airline.
F-5-L (U. S. sea plane).
Plans of Ford for air transportation.
Photo of type. 271, 1573.
269, 1286.
Fairlamb, George R.
Foreign trade.
Destroyer engineer in battle. 274, 2289. See subhead "Commerce" under names
Independent air force. 265, 381.
of countries.
Ferguson, K. B.
France. Colonies.
Situation in the Pacific. 270, 1551.
French loss in wars with colonies since
Field, Richard S.
1920. 274, 2410.
Destroyer in the Near East. (Illus.)
Commerce
Pt. 1, 264, 246; Pt. 2, 265, 400. French foreign trade, 1924-25. 269,
Spalato, 1919. (Illus.). 267, 775
1264.
Finance, international
French trade expansion, 1925. 272,
See International finance.
1980.
Fisher, C. W.
Foreign Affairs
Discussion of “Excellence of naval French difficulties in Syria, 1925. 274,
material." 272, 1964.
2409.
Proposed administrative changes in Official recognition of Russia. 263, 162.
Navy Dept. 265, 357.
Fleet, The.
Naval Policy
Craven, F. S. Excellence of naval Russell, Sir H. French naval policy.
material. 271, 1573.
269, 1262.
Livingston, B. Discussion of "Balanced French naval construction policy, 1924.
fleet for U.S. Navy." 271, 1744.
263, 118.


  p. 2437 (#1401)                      

1925)
2437
Index to Volume 51
1566.
Navy
· General staff.
Bywater, H. C. Impressions of French
Wright, H. J. War staff idea afloat. 274,
sea power. 271, 1762.
2289.
French naval notes, 1925. 270, 1502.
Geneva Arms Traffic Conf., 1925.
French naval notes, 1925. 273, 2192. Decisions of. 269, 1315.
French naval outlook, 1925. 267, 822.
Poison gas and bacteria protocols. 270,
French naval renaissance, 1925. 274,
2352.
Geneva Cpium Conference, 1924.
The new French fleet (1925). 264, 292. Work of. 263, 164.
Reorganization of French high com-
Germany. Army.
mand. 265, 469.
Foch on German army and armament.
267, 878.
Navy. Program.
French navy notes, 1925. 271, 1764.
Domestic Affairs
New French program, 1925. 264, 294, Dec., 1924, elections. 264, 346.
265, 470.
Navy
Riffian War, 1925
Building new cruiser (1925). 264, 297,
Peace offers withdrawn. 272, 2038.
German naval activity, 1925. 266, 628.
New warship for German navy. 265,471.
War College
Gibson, H.
French war college, 1925. 267, 817. Discussion on “Diesel engines for capital
Freemasons.
ships." 271, 1735.
Facists attack Masons in Florence, Gilmer, F. H.
(1925). 274, 2411.
Device for solving for true wind. 274,
Frost, H. H.
2286.
Discussion of "What might have Giro-plane.
happened at Jutland." 269, 1231. See Aeronautics. Aircraft.
National strategy. 270, 1343.
Gleaves, Albert.
Fuel.
Review of Farrire, C., and Chack, P.,
Synthetic fuels. 267, 826.
Combats et batailles sur mer. 271, 1806.
Tests of pulverized coal. 272, 2007. Review of Hurd's Merchant navy, 2 vols.
Fuel (oil)."
267, 882.
Fuel oil for marine engines. 265, 490. Review of Paine's Joshua Barney. 263,
Furious (Brit. aircraft carrier).
173.
Photo. 269, 1248.
Godfrey, V. H.
Fushun (steamer).
Destroyer division commander's in-
Thornycroft shallow draft ship for spection. 274, 2292.
China. (Illus.). 274, 2394.
Goff (U.S. S.)
Field, Richard S. Destroyer in the
Near East. Pt. 1, 264, 246; Pt. 2,
Gas ejectors.
265, 400.
See Ejectors.
Photo showing U. S. S. Goff at Rhodes.
Gas mask and the next war.
265, 357.
D. C. Walton. 269, 1172.
Golden Horn.
Gas warfare.
Photo of. 265, 410.:
See Chemical warfare.
Goodrich, C. F.
Gaster, G. E.
Review of Custance, Study of war. 266,
Small plant condensers. 266, 650.
688.
Gatch, T. L.
Review of Gleaves' "Life of an Ameri-
Abuse of Court of Inquiry. 267, 797. can Sailor, Rear Adm. Emory." 274,
Mooring board problem. (Illus.) 271,
2419.
1716.
Review of Meigs' Story of the seaman.
Gautreau, J. B.
265, 514.
Consequences of the triumph of the Review of Adm. Selfridge's Memoirs.
Zeppelins. 263, 117.
263, 168.
French naval notes, 1925. 264, 290. Governors.
Quadruple turret in cruisers. 266, 626. Ramsay Diesel governor. 263, 143.
Qualities of the 2400-ton French de- | Graphical aids to navigation.
stroyer. 263, 115.
W. A. Mason, 271, 1707.


  p. 2438 (#1402)                      

2438
[Dec.
Index to Volume 51
305.
Grate bars.
Gunnery training.--Cont'd
Aluminum as protective coating. 269, Hewitt, H. K. Discussion of "Possible
1276.
improvements in our gunnery train-
Gt. Brit. Foreign relations.
ing." 274, 2334.
Diplomatic relations with Mexico re Shock, T. M. Discussion of "Possible
sumed, 1925. 272, 2038.
improvements in our gunnery train-
McDonald treaties with Russia can ing." 274, 2338.
celled. 263, 160.
Gun elevation.
Naval Policy
See Guns (ordnance).
Guns (ordnance).
Bywater, H. C. British naval plans
Bywater, H. C. Suggest gun elevation
criticised. 272, 1970.
issue be settled by commission. 264,
Bywater, H. C. Cruiser strength vital
311.
to Gt. Britain. 263, 107.
Eberle report recommends moderniza.
British navy needs and the Mosul issue.
tion of ships by elevating guns. 264,
274, 2360.
Cruiser policy, 1925. 273, 2176.
British note on gun elevation question.
Maintaining the fleet. 272, 1974.
264, 330.
Naval Stations and Bases
Elevation issue believed dead. 265, 48).
Russell, Sir H. Value of Hongkong.
Elevation of guns opposed by Coolidge.
269, 1251.
265, 479.
Navy
Improved 8-in.guns forcruisers. 264,309.
Wilbur urges new long range guns for
Data on British post-treaty warships. cruisers. 264, 332.
264, 285.
Last word on 5-5-3 ratio (capital ship
н
strength, U. S. and British navies, Hammond, P. H.
1925). 269, 1270.
Discussion of “Diesel engines for capital
Navy. Dockyards.
ships." 271, 1736.
Haney, Bert E.
Royal dockyards, 1925. 272, 1972.
Commissioner Haney and Adm. Palmer
Navy. Program.
273, 2207.
1925 269, 1249
Hart, Thos. C.
272, 1968
Discussion on "Commissioned per-
sonnel problems." 264, 280.
Politics
What might have happened at Jutland.
October, 1924, elections. 263, 160.
(Illus.) 269, 1143.
Greek-Bulgarian war, 1925.
Haw, J. C.
Hostilities halted. 274, 2408.
Anti-aircraft defense. 274, 2383.
Greif (Ger, aux. cruiser).
Hawaiian islands.
See Mendl. I. W. V. Corsairs. 268, 1001. Bywater, H. C. Hawaii's naval needs.
Gripsholm (Motor ship).
271, 1767.
Illustration showing 67-ton crank shaft Hawaiian maneuvers, 1925.
of the Gripsholm. 267, 845.
See Maneuvers.
Grow, G.
Hayes, Sir B. F.
Operation of carbon dioxide refrigerat Commands Majestic on last voyage.
ing plants. 263, 139.
264, 313.
Gulliver, L. J.
Helena ( U. S. S.).
Admiral Columbus. 263, 96.
Illustration. 263, 70.
“Guarding the Giant.”
Heligoland.
Painting by Poole. 272, 1830.
Demolition of harbor and defense works.
Gunnery.
267, 827.
Bywater, H. C. Gunnery in battle of | Henderson, Sir W. H.
Jutland. 271, 1780.
Airship offensive. 271, 1756.
Sherman, F. P. Main battery elevations Capital ship problems. 274, 2347.
and fighting aircraft. 266, 600.
Some British views on airships. 274,
Gunnery training.
2342.
Blandy, W. H. P. Possible improve- | Hewitt, H. K.
ments in our gunnery training. 271, Discussion of “Possible improvements in
1696.
our gunnery training." 274, 2334.


  p. 2439 (#1403)                      

1925)
2439
Index to Volume 51
Hilliard, Robert B.
Internal combustion engines.-Cont'd
Salvage of S-19. (Illus.) 270, 1408.
Gibson, H. Discussion on “Diesel
Hindenburg, Paul von.
engines for capital ships.” 271, 1736.
Elected pres. of Germany. 268, 1089. Hammond, P. H. Discussion on “Diesel
Inauguration of Pres. Hindenberg. 269, engines for capital ships." 271, 1736.
1314.
Howard, H. S.“ Discussion of “Diesel
Hinds, A. W.
engines for capital ships.” 270, 1496.
Panama canal's biggest ship. (Illus.) Proctor, A. M. Diesel engines for capital
271, 1703.
ships. 269, 1217.
Hironori, Mizuno.
Proctor, A. M. Discussion of “Diesel
America's Pacific maneuvers. 268, 1085. engines for capital ships.” (Illus.)
History repeats.
273, 2156.
O. C. Badger. 267, 707.
Robison, J. K. Discussion of “Diesels
Honduras.
for capital ships." 269, 1237.
Denver lands 150 officers and men at Robinson, S. M. Discussion of “Diesels
Ceiba, Honduras. 268, 1096.
for capital ships." 269, 1237.
Hongkong, China.
Theobald, R. A.: Discussion on “Diesel
Russell, Sir Herbert. Value of Hong engines for capital ships." 271, 1734.
kong. 269, 1251.
Chinese gunboats to have Diesel engines
Honi Heke's War.
265, 493.
McClellan, E. B. Honi Heke's war of Double-acting Diesels. 267, 841.
1845 in New Zealand. 270, 1459. German Diesel engine practice. (Illus.)
Hood (H. M. S.).
271, 1776.
Hinds, A. W. Panama Canal's biggest Illustration of 4-stroke cycle, double-
ship. (Illus.) 271, 1703.
acting, reversible Diesel. 267, 811.
Howard, H. S.
Largest Diesel in the world. 263, 138.
Discussion of “Diesel engines for capital Superchargers. 272, 1994.
ships." 270, 1496.
Supercharging. 271, 1773.
Discussion of "Excellence of naval 10,000 h.p. Diesel for motor ship
material.” 273, 2165.
Asturias. Illustration. 271, 1753.
Howe, Walter Bruce.
Whaley constant pressure engine. 273,
Navy Day. 272, 1825.
2203.
Hughes, Charles E.
Worthington. Diesel engine has 30-day
Resigns State portfolio. 265, 508.
test. 263, 137.
Hunt, Livingston.
International finance.
Attempted mutiny on the U. S. brig |
"Somers.” (Illus.) 273, 2062.
U. S. debt settlements, Czechoslovakia
and Italy, 1925. 274, 2411.
I
Identification of stars.
International maritime law.
Sherman, F. Naval aircraft in inter-
See Stars, identification of.
national law. 274, 2259.
Industry.
International Opium Conf. 1924-25.
Snow, Elliot. Army industrial college.
270, 1469.
Results. 266, 683.
International relations.
Inspection.
Godfrey, V. H. Destroyer division
Dunn, L. C. Morocco-a diplomatic
commander's inspection. 274, 2292.
complex. 263, 28.
Insurance.
Ferguson, K. B. Situation in the Pacific.
Brown, W. E. Are you worth it? 274,
270, 1551.
2328.
Japan, U. S., and Gt. Britain. 265, 464.
Intelligence tests.
World's danger spots. 272, 2023.
Brigham, C. C. Psychological tests.
Investments. American foreign invest-
267, 875.
ments, 1925. 272, 2038.
Tisdale, M. S. Intelligence tests at the
Irak dispute.
U. S. Naval Academy. 264, 202.
League council acts. 263, 161. .
Internal combustion boiler. See Boilers.
“Isabel” (U. S. S.).
Internal combustion engines.
Illustration. 263, 74.
Dinger, H. C. Discussion of “Diesel Isis (ship).
engines for capital ships." 271, 1738. Description. 265, 450.
Dyson, C. W. Discussion of “Diesels Isle of Pines.
for capital ships.” 269, 1236.
Ceded to Cuba. 267, 881.


  p. 2440 (#1404)                      

2440
[Dec.
Index to Volume 51
Italy.
Economic situation in Italy. 272, 1981.
Progress of Facismo in Italian affairs.
(1925.) 274, 2410.
Navy
New Italian warships. (1925) 265, 504.
Japan.
Commercial and industrial position of,
1925. 272, 1983.
Army
Kilbourne, C. E. Combat methods of
the Japanese. 272, 2015.
Earthquake, 1923
Lamb, S. G. U. S. Navy and the
Japanese earthquake. (Illus.) 268,
963.
Foreign Relations
Kawakami, K. K. Says Japan publishes
unfair data regarding U. Š. Navy.
264, 314.
Russell, Sir H. Australia's appre-
hensions. 272, 2021.
Tagawa, D. America, let's reason
together. 274, 2365.
Peace protest from Tokio. 274, 2362.
Naval Policy
Bywater, H. C. Hawaiian maneuvers
and Japan's naval policy. 265, 474.
Russell, Sir Herbert. Japan's naval
policy. 265, 472.
Russell, Sir Herbert. Shadow of rising
sun. 270, 1514.
Japanese naval aims, 1925. 270, 1511.
Japanese naval plans and policies, 1924.
263, 119.
Navy
Bywater, H. C. American and Jap.
navies compared. 264, 306.
Jap. naval construction, 1925. 268, 1070
Navy. Program .
Japanese program rushed to completion.
(1925.) 264, 301.
Jellicoe, John R., viscount.
Jutland tactics defended. 264, 289.
Jenkins, C. F.
Radio vision. (Illus.) 273, 2150.
Joint army and navy operations.
W. S. Pye.
Pt. 14-262, 1963
Pt. 2-263, 1
Pt. 3—264, 233
Pt. 4–265, 386
Pt. 5–266, 589
Pt. 6—268, 975
Johnson, A. W.
Aviation in coast defense. 271, 1653.
Jones, Hilary P.
Petroleum and national defense. 272,
1838.
Jones, John Paul.
Rochester, H. A. Discussion of "Basic
education of officers." 268, 1018.
Jordan, John N.
Discussion of “Organization of Navy
Dept." 271, 1727.
Jutland, battle of.
Bywater, H. C. Gunnery in battle of
Jutland. 271, 1780.
Frost, H. H. Discussion of "What
might have happened at Jutland."
269, 1231.
Hart, T.C. "What might have happened
at Jutland.” (Illus.) 269, 1143.
Knox, D. W. Battle of Jutland. 265,
501.
Musser, Neil B. Lessons of Jutland
affecting design of turret armor. 266,
562.
K
Kawakami, K. K.
Says Japan gave out misleading naval
data. 264, 314.
Kellogg, Frank B.
__Appointed Secy. of State. 265, 508.
Kiang-Su, China.
Cotten, L. A. Other days in Kiang-Su.
268, 952.
Kieffer, H. M.
Control of the seas by an air depart-
ment? 274, 2265.
Kilbourne, C. E.
Combat methods of the Japanese. 272,
2015.
Knight, A. M.
Review of Moore's Last days of mast
and sail. 273, 2226.
Knox, Dudley W.
Another side of the 5-5-3 argument.
272, 1985.
Battle of Jutland. 265, 501.
Experiments on U.S. S. Washington of
great value in determining bombing
effects. 263, 128.
New naval conference predicted. 265,
498.
Sea power and pocketbooks. 274. 2231.
Second naval parley needed. 264, 339.
Koon, Sidney G.
American naval strength. 263, 120.
Krafft, Herman F.
New lease of life for Old Ironsides. 272,
1938.


  p. 2441 (#1405)                      

1925)
2441
Index to Volume 51
Krause, R. E.
| Litchfield (U. S. S.).
Trend of naval affairs. (1925 prize Illustration; photo taken from the ruins
essay). 266, 521.
of Korghaz castle. 264, 183.
Littlehales, G. W.
Discussion on "Star identification dia-
gram.” 271, 1723.
Lake Erie, Battle of
Finding geographic position in region of
Lewis, Charles L. Powell's Perry's vic north pole. 270, 1339.
tory on Lake Erie, 270, 1473.
Review of Goodwin's Companion to
Lamb, S. G.
azimuth tables. 272, 2045.
U. S. Navy and Japanese earthquake Livingston, Brockholst.
(1923). (Illus.) 268, 963.
Discussion of “Balanced fleet for U. S.
Lang, R. G.
Navy." 271, 1744.
Supply ship. (Illus.) 264, 268.
Discussion of "Basic education of
Langley, (U. S. aircraft carrier).
officers." 266, 611.
Photo. 269, 1135.
Discussion of "National strategy.” 272,
Latin America.
1965.
Latin America and the League of Indoctrinating civilians in naval de-
Nations. 271, 1802.
fense. (Discussion.) 263, 102.
Lawrence, David.
Locarno treaty, 1925.
Arms parley call up to Europe. 26 274, 2407.
337."
Loening amphibian plane.
League of Nations.
Successful tests (illus.). 267, 850.
Russell, Sir H. League of nations and Los Angeles (U. S. airship).
disarmament. 263, 151.
Wiley, H. V. Celestial cruise. 266, 604.
6th annual session, 1925. 273, 2213.
Los Angeles a fine job. 269, 1287.
Invites Germany to enter League. 267,
Photo showing ship at mooring mast.
880.
266, 521, 605.
British conservatives and the League. Lovette, Leland P.
263, 112.
Pampanga case, China patrol, 1923.
Lejeune, John A.
263, 76.
U.S. Marine Corps. (Illus.) 272, 1858.
Lubricating oils.
Leviathans of antiquity.
O'Neill, J. G. Selecting oils for navy
T. L. Schumacher. 265, 446.
use. 272, 2004.
Leviathan (S. S.).
New industry. 274, 2405.
Lubrication.
Reconditioning of. 265, 492.
Photo. 274, 2734.
Reduction of friction in stern tubes.
269, 1285.
Lewis, Charles Lee.
Powell's Perry's Victory on Lake Erie.
M
(Illus.) 276, 1473.
Liberté (Fr. battleship).
McCain, J. S.
Service since graduation vs. age in
Refloating the Liberte. 267, 825.
grade retirement. 267, 737.
Life insurance.
McCall (U. S. S.).
See Insurance.
Reproduction of Poole's painting
Limitation of armament.
"Guarding the Giant." 272, 1830.
Knox, D. W. New naval conference. McClellan, E. N.
predicted. 265, 498.
Discussion of "Blood-is-thicker-than-
Knox, D. W. Second naval parley water" episode. (Tattnall report,
needed. 264, 339.
1859.) 269, 1243.
Lawrence, David. Arms parley call Honi Heke's war of 1845 in New
up to Europe. 264, 337.
Zealand. 270, 1459.
Russell, Sir H. League of nations and McCracken, Alan R.
disarmament. 263, 151.
Selection and use of binoculars. 270,
Economics of the next conference. 270, 1446.
1516.
McDowell, C. S.
Navy progress and pacts: new limita Discussion on “Excellence of naval
tions called impracticable. 274, 2356. material.” 272, 1961.
Views of a 2nd disarmament conference Discussion of "Proposed changes in
(1925). 268, 1092.
navy dept." 270, 1494.


  p. 2442 (#1406)                      

2442
[Dec.
Index to Volume 51
McIntyre, M. H.
Maury, Matthew Fontaine.
Naval aircraft investigation, 1924. 263, Brandt, G. E. Maury's genius shown
145.
in old letter. 269, 1196.
McKay, Donald.
Coxe, Lewis. M. F. Maury. 269, 1192.
Donald McKay memorial. 271, 1818. Port. 269, 1107.
McKeever, Isaac.
Mélot, H. F.
McClellan, E. N. Honi Heke's war of Mélot method of airplane propulsion.
1845 in New Zealand. 270, 1459.
273, 2202.
Magnetic pole.
Memorial Hall, U. S. N. A.
Byrd, R. E. Flying over the polar sea. Photo of entrance showing Perry's motto
(Maps and illus.) 270, 1319.
flag. 273, 2056.
Magnus effect.
Mendenhall, W. K.
Description of "Magnus effect" in air Retardation of ship's speed due to
flow. 264, 321.
turning. 271, 1719.
See also Flettner rotor ship; rotor ships; | Mendi, Ing. w. v.
wing rotors.
Corsairs. 268, 1001.
Maneuvering board.
Mental tests.
Willson, Russell. Direct reading See Intelligence tests.
maneuvering diagrams. 274, 2276. Merchant marine.
Maneuvers.
Cook, Cary W. Merchant ship subsidy
Bywater, H. C. Hawaiian maneuvers systems. 271, 1787.
and Japan. 265, 474.
Knox, D. W. Sea power and pocket-
Hironori, M. America's Pacific man-
books. 274, 2231.
euvers. 268, 1085.
Palmer, L. C. Government owned
Small, R. W. Navy's effort to "take" merchant marine. 272, 1944.
Hawaii to be gigantic affair. 266, 633. World's merch. shipp'g, 1925. 271,1785.
Hawaiian maneuvers called war pro Shipping Board asks aid of Congress
voking. (1925.) 264, 317.
(1925). 264, 319.
Pacific maneuvers proposal (1925). 265, Cook, Cary. National merchant marine
466.
policy. 269, 1298.
U. S. fleet maneuvers program for 1925. Defense (and armament) of merchant
263, 122.
ships in time of war. 270, 1541.
Manufactures.
Merchant marine reserve for U. S. 269,
Snow, Elliot. Army industrial college. 1301.
270, 1469.
Shipping Board and Adm. Palmer. 274,
Marine engineering.
2397.
Donald, H. G. Operation of a destroyer Ship-owner's solution of merchant ma-
at full power. 263, 15.
rine problems. 269, 1294.
Fairlamb, G. R. Destroyer engineer in World's tonnage ("British marine en-
battle. 274, 2289.
gineering") 1925. 274, 2392.
Robison, J. K. Wise man knows his See also Shipbuilding.
tools. 272, 1882.
Mexico. Foreign relations.
Smith, R. R. Engineering economy on Japanese fish'grightscancelled. 263, 164.
auxiliary vessels. 273, 2101.
Severs diplomatic relations with Gt.
Weber, G. K., and Styer, C. W. Stand Britain, 1924. 263, 164.
ing one. 273, 2110.
Midshipmen, Japanese.
One way to dodge entropy. 263, 141. Visit American waters. 264, 318.
Position of British marine engineering, Meters.
1925. 274, 2391.
Metering of Auids. 273, 2205.
Turbine gland sealing system. 264, 325. Miles, Sherman.
Wearing of turbine blades. (Illus.) 266, Notes on Dardanelles campaign (maps).
268, 1027.
World's marine engineering situation, Miller, P. J."
1925. 272, 2000.
Underwood, E. B. “Lest we forget."
Mason, A. W.'
269, 1166.
Graphical aids to navigation. 271, 1707. | Mines, military and naval.
Masons.
Bagby, 0. W. Naval mining and naval
See Freemasons.
mines. 274, 2244.
Material, naval.
Mitchell, William.
Craven, F. S. Excellence of naval The Mitchell plan for aeronautics. 274.
material. 271, 1573.
2372.
645.


  p. 2443 (#1407)                      

1925)
2443
Index to Volume 51
Moewe (Ger. qux. cruiser).
See Mendl, I. W. V., Corsairs. 268,
1001.
Moffett, William A.
Some' aviation fundamentals (Illus.).
272, 1871.
Monarch, (H. M. S.).
Monarch tests, 1925, 266, 619.
Taken from Portsmouth and sunk in
tests. 265, 462.
Mooring board.
Brandt, G. E. Discussion of "Moor-
ing board problem." 274, 2339.
Gatch, T. L. "Mooring board problem.”
(Illus.) 271, 1716.
Willson, Russell. Direct reading ma-
neuvering diagrams. 274, 2276.
Morale.
Snyder, H. R. If I were to do my
service over again. 263, 59.
Morocco-a diplomatic complex.
L. C. Dunn. 263, 28.
Mosul dispute.
Before League of Nations Council,
1925. 273, 2213.
British navy's needs and the Mosul
issue. 274, 2360.
Motor ships.
Fine performance of. 271, 1775.
Future of motorships. 267, 843.
Motor liner Asturias. 271, 1773.
Motor ships “Asturias." 272, 2010.
Propelling machinery controversy. 272,
2003.
Shipping Board's plan to convert to
motor drive is protested by ship-
builders. 263, 130.
Shipping Board to convert 18 ships to
motor drive. 263, 132.
Musser, Neil B.
Lessons of Jutland affecting design of
turret armor. 266, 562.
Naval architecture.
Bywater, H. C., and Prendergast,
Maurice. Post-treaty naval design.
273, 2135.
Engineers see vastly improved battle-
ships. 265, 500.
Problems in cruiser design. 263, 149.
Stability of ships. 274, 2396.
Thornycroft shallow-draft ship for
Chinese rivers. (Illus.) 274, 2394.
Warships of the future. 273, 2209.
Naval art and science.
Craven, F. S. Excellence of naval
material. 271, 1573.
Naval customs.
Cups and success for seamen. 269, 1254.
Naval education.
Bunts, F. M. Discussion of "Basic
education of officers." 268, 1021.
Folk, Winston. Basic education of
officers. 264, 274.
Livingston, Brockholst. Discussion of
“Basic education of officers.” 266, 611.
Riesenberg, Felix. Discussion of "Basic
education of officers" from Nautical
Gazette. 268, 1016.
Rochester, H. A. Discussion of "Basic
education of naval officers." 268,
1018.
Naval engineering training. 269, 1256.
Naval gunnery.
See Gunnery.
Naval history.
British naval history essays. 267, 811.
Naval material.
Craven, F. S. Excellence of naval
material. 271, 1573.
Naval policy:
National advisory committee for aero.
10th annual report. 265, 493.
National Strategy. H. H. Frost. 270, 1343.
Nation in arms and a national doctrine.
J. M. Scammell. 271, 1684.
Naval administration.
Craven, F. S. Excellence of naval
material. 271, 1573.
Naval architecture.
Musser, N. B. Lessons of Jutland
affecting design of turret armor. 266,
562.
Vaval archaeology.
Schumacher, T. L. Leviathans of
antiquity. (Illus.) 265, 446.
Stirling, Yates. Some fundamentals of
sea power. 268, 889.
Naval Research Laboratory.
Paul Foley. 272, 1925.
Naval statistics.
See Navies.
Naval strategy.
Russell, Sir H. Limitations of modern
sea war. 270, 1546.
Naval strategy and tactics.
Castex, R. Effect of aircraft on future
warships. 263, 154.
Krause, R. E. Trend of naval affairs.
(1925 prize essay.) 266, 521.
Russell, Sir H. Amphibian operations.
274, 2403.
Russell, Sir H. Prevision in strategy.
264, 340.
Navies.
Bywater, H. C. World-wide activity in
naval construction. 263, 156.


  p. 2444 (#1408)                      

2444
[Dec.
Index to Volume 51
Navies.-Cont'd
Oil fields.
Comparative data for treaty navies | British naval needs and the Mosul issue.
(1925). 272, 1954.
274, 2360.
Restraint of treaty shown in. naval See also Petroleum.
construction, 1924. 266, 680.
Oil production.
War fleets of the nations (1925). 269, Production and consumption of oil in
1306.
U. S. 265, 491.
Navigation.
Oil reserves (naval).
Gilmer, F. H. Device for solving for Naval oil reserve controversy. 265, 492.
true wind. 274, 2286.
Oklahoma (U. S. S.).
Mason, W. A. Graphical aids to navi Weber, G. K., and Styer, C. W. Stand-
gation. 271, 1707.
ing one. 273, 2110.
Weems, P. V.H. Navigator's notebook.
“Old Ironsides"
273, 2138.
See Constitution (U. S. S.).
Navigation laws.
O'Neill, J. G.
Smith, A. G. Need for revision of our Selecting oils for navy use. 272, 2004.
navigation laws. 267, 834.
Opium conference, Geneva, 1924.
Navigator's Notebook.
Work of. 263, 164.
P. V. H. Weems. 273, 2138.
Navy Day.
P
Howe, W. B. Navy Day. 272, 1825.
Pacificism.
Robinson, T. D. Gentlemen, the Navy! | Cluverius, W. T. Array against sover-
272, 1817.
eignty. 272, 1916.
Near East.
Pacific Zone: British view of U. S. naval
Field, R. S. Destroyer in the Near East.
policy. Sir H. Russell. 270, 1480.
(Illus.)
Packard aircraft engine.
Pt. 1—264, 246
269, 1288.
Pt. 2—265, 400
Packard Motor Car Co.
Nelson (H. M. S.).
Packard activities in aeronautics. 269,
Russell, Sir H. New cruisers. 273, 2180.
1287.
Russell, Sir H. The new battleships. Page, Walter Hines.'
274, 2357.
Wainwright, Richard. Dacia dilemma.
Illustration. 273, 2175.
270, 1452.
Remarkable design of. 265, 483.
Palen, F. P.
Neptune (planet).
Protection of American shipbuilding.
Brandt, G. E. Maury's genius shown
270, 1532.
in old letter. 269, 1197.
Palmer, H. C.
Nevada (U. S. S.).
Discussion of "Blood is thicker than
Photo. 272, 1845.
water." 267, 801.
New York City.
Palmer, Leigh C.
Photo of harbor. 272, 1845.
Commissioner Haney and Adm. Palmer.
New Zealand.
273, 2207.
McClellan, E. N. Honi Heke's war of
Government owned merchant marine.
1845. 270, 1459.
272, 1944.
Niagara (U. S. s.).
Past and future of Fleet Corporation.
To chart Venezuelan coast. 263, 148.
268, 1079.
Niblack, A. P.
Shipping Board and Adm. Palmer. 274,
Review of Nicolai, German secret service.
2397.
Truth from Adm. Palmer. 270, 1531.
Nicaragua.
Palos (U. S. S.).
U. S. Marines leave Nicaragua, 1925.
Illus. 263, 1.
271, 1802.
Pampanga (U, S. S.).
Nimitz, o.
U. S. S. Pampanga in Chinese waters.
Lt. Nimitz's true wind solver. 274, 2286.
263, 76.
Panama Canal.
Oil (fuel).
Hinds, A. W. Panama Canal's biggest
See Fuel.
ship. (Illus.) 271, 1703.
Oil burners.
Patrick, Mason M. .
Biles, Sir J. Steam or oil engines for Report on independent air service,
fast ships? 269, 1278.
1925. 270, 1518.
Nicaragual 098. "colai, Germa


  p. 2445 (#1409)                      

1925)
2445
Index to Volume 51
Prize essays.
Peace.
| Post-treaty naval design.
Brandt, E. S. R. Armament by example H. C. Bywater and Maurice Prender-
and arbitration. 269, 1152.
gast. 273, 2135.
Pearl harbor.
Powell, William Henry.
Bywater, H. C. Hawaii's naval needs. Lewis, C. L. Powell's Perry's Victory
271, 1767.
on Lake Erie. (Illus.) 270, 1473.
“Pei-ho Episode"
Prendergast, Maurice, jt. author.
See "Blood is thicker than water."
See Bywater, Hector C. and Prender-
Peking Tariff Conference, 1925.
gast, Maurice.
Opens, with 12 foreign powers repre- Preparedness.
sented. 274, 2412.
Cluverius, W. T. Array against sover-
Pelican (U. S. S.).
eignty. 272, 1916.
Photo showing P N9-1 on board U.S. S. Rodgers, W. L. Military preparedness.
Pelican. 274, 2258.
272, 1845.
Pensacola naval station.
Tripp, G. E. Manufacturer on “pre-
Raby, J. J. Naval aviation training. paredness." 267, 831.
271, 1646.
See also U. S. Naval policy.
Persia.
Trade and industry of Persia (1925). Krause, R. E. Trend of naval affairs.
274, 2401.
1925 prize. 266, 521.
Petroleum.
List of authors and essays 1879-1924.
Jones, H. P. Petroleum and national 263, 178.
defense. 272, 1838.
Van Dyke Prize Essay (2nd prize).
See also Oil.
Eller, E. M. Three craftsmen. 273,
Philippine Islands.
2049.
Foreign trade development. 267, 839. Proctor, A. M.
Photography.
Diesel engines for capital ships-a mili-
See Radiophotography.
tary necessity. 269, 1217.
Pierre Chailley (Fr. minelayer).
Discussion of "Diesel engines for capital
Illustration. 264, 294.
ships.” (Illus.) 273, 2156.
Pilgrim (Good year airship).
Propaganda.
Inaugural Hight. 272, 1999.
Livingston, B. Discussion of “National
Photo. 272, 1967.
strategy." 272, 1965.
Planetarium.
Propellers aeronautic.
Bauersfeld, I. W. Great planetarium of Magnesium propeller successful. 267,
the German museum at Munich.
849.
(Illus.) 267, 761. Correction, 268, Propulsion methods.
1105.
See also Internal combustion engines.
Planisphere.
Rival methods of ship propulsion. 270,
Wood, A. N. Home-made planisphere. 1543.
271, 1711.
Psychological tests.
PN9-1 ('U, S, airplane).
See Intelligence tests.
Photo showing P N9-1 on board U.S. S. Publicity.
Pelican. 274, 2258.
Knox, D. W. Sea power and pocket-
Polar regions.
books. 274, 2231.
Byrd, R. E. Flying over the polar sea. Scammell, J. M. Nation in arms and
(Maps and Illus. 279, 1319)
national doctrine. 271, 1684.
Littlehales, G. W. Finding geographic Livingston, B. Discussion on in-
position in region of north pole. 270, doctrinating civilians in matters of
1339.
naval defense. 263, 102.
Port Arthur.
Pulitzer air races, 1925.
Abandoned as base by Japs. 264, 303. Photo of winner, Lt. Bettis, and Curtis
Porter, Russell.
Army racer. 274, 2340.
Leading points in world disputes dis Pulitzer trophy race. 274, 2379.
cussed at Williamstown Institute of Pye, W. S.
Politics. 272, 2023.
Joint army and navy operations.
Position finding.
Pt. 1-262, 1963
Littlehales, G. W Finding geographic
Pt. 2—263 1
position in region of north pole. 270,
Pt. 3—264, 233
1339.
Pt. 4–265, 386


  p. 2446 (#1410)                      

2446
(Dec.
Index to Volume 51
R
Pye, W. S.--Cont'd
Riff War, 1925.
Pt. 5—266, 589
France and the Riff. 273, 2215.
Pt. 6—268, 975
Progress to May, 1925. 269, 1314.
French success in Morocco. 271, 1801.
Robison, J. K.
Discussion of “Diesels for capital ships."
R-101 (Brit, airship).
269, 1237.
Description. 268, 1061.
Wise man knows his tools. 272, 1882.
Raby, James J.
Robinson, S. M.
Naval aviation training. 271, 1646.
Discussion of “Diesels for capital ships."
269, 1237.
Review of Alden and Earle's "Makers
of naval tradition." 273, 2224.
Robinson, T. Douglas.
Radio.
Gentlemen, the Navy! 272, 1817.
Breckel, H. F. Naval radio progress
Rochester, Harry A.
(1925). 267, 790.
Bachelor looks at the navy pay bills.
270, 1455.
Dellinger, J. 'H. Survey of current
Discussion of "Basic education of
progress in radio. 267, 865.
officers." 268, 1018.
Broadcasting from airships successful.
Rodgers, W. L.
263, 149.
Naval radio needs millions for modern-
Military preparedness. 272, 1845.
· ization. 265,497.
Review of Custance, Study of War.
266, 689.
Radio beams.
New radio aids for saving ships. 264,
Review of Edmund's Lawless law of
nations. 274, 2414.
334.
Rodney (H. M. S.).
Short wave sent high opens new field.
Russell, Sir H. New cruisers. 273, 2180.
266, 674.
Russell, Sir H. The new battleships.
Radio control of vessels.
274, 2357.
Radio device guides ship. 264, 333.
Remarkable design of. 265, 483.
Radio fog signals.
Rohrbach metal flying boat.
Stations in U. S. 264, 335.
Description. 268, 1076.
Radiophotography.
Illustration. 268, 1027.
Jenkins, C. F. Radio vision. (Illus.) | Roosevelt, Theodore, Pres. of U.S.
273, 2150.
Port. 272, 1827.
Ramsay Diesel governor.
Rotor ships.
Description. 263, 143.
Sail-less wind ship. 263, 133.
Refrigerating plants.
German admiralty's rotor shif. 271,
Grow, G. Operation of carbon dioxide 1775.
refrigerating plants. 263, 139.
Wing rotor. (Illus.) 274, 2390.
Reid pilot testing apparatus.
See also Flettner rotor ship; Magnus
Air ministry's exhibit at Wembly. 271, 1
effect; wing rotor.
1758.
Rudders.
Renown (H. M. S.).
First installation of 3-blade Flettner
Reconstruction of. 265, 461.
rudder. (Illus.) 263, 135.
Research.
Flettner rudder of motor ship Sorrento
Foley, Paul. Naval research laboratory. | Rule
(Illus.). 272, 2013.
Rules of the road.
272, 1925.
Retardation of ship's speed due to turning.
Navigation rules for rotor ships. 269,
1265.
271, 1719.
Russell, Sir Herbert.
Rhodes.
America's naval policy. 269, 1267.
Photo showing U.S. S. Goff at Rhodes. Amphibian operations. 274, 2403.
265, 357.
Australia's apprehensions. 272, 2021.
Richmond (U. S. S.).
Flying ships. 273, 2200.
Barker, F. V. How the navy helped French naval policy. 269, 1262.
them home. (Illus.) 270, 1415.
Japan's naval policy. 265, 472,
Riesenberg, Felix.
League of nations and disarmament.
Discussion of "Basic education of 263, 151.
officers' from Nautical Gazette. 268, Limitations of modern sea war. 270,
1016.
1546.


  p. 2447 (#1411)                      

1925)
2447
Index to Volume 51
Russell, Sir Herbert.-Cont'd
Sea power and pocketbooks.
The new battleships- Nelson and Rod D. W. Knox. 274, 2231.
ney. 274, 2357.
Seeadler, (Ger. aux. cruiser).
New cruisers. 273, 2180.
See Mendl, I. W. V. Corsairs. 268, 1001.
Pacific zone: British view of U. S.
| Seamanship.
naval policy. 270, 1480.
Thurber, H. R. Some notes on destroyer
Peace without security. 267, 814.
handling alongside. 269, 1202.
Prevision in strategy. 264, 340.
Willson, Russell. Direct reading ma-
Shadow of the rising sun. 270, 1514. neuvering diagrams. 274, 2276.
Smaller fighting ships: reaction from Shafroth, J. F.
colossal displacement. 274, 2349. Discussion of "Excellence of naval
U. S. sea power. 266, 624.
material." 273, 2164.
Value of Hongkong. 269, 1251.
Shearer, William B.
The Washington experiment. 266, 675. Bywater, H. C. The Shearer suit to halt
Will the capital ship pass? 270, 1548. scrapping of Washington. 264, 286.
Russia. Foreign Relations.
American battleship incident. 264, 303.
English treaties cancelled 1924. 263, Says U. S. “destroyer power" is mere
160.
myth. 264, 305.
France recognizes Soviet republic. 263, Shenandoah (U. S. airship)..
162.
Henderson, Sir W. H. Some British
views on airships. 274, 2342.
Navy
The aeronautical crisis, 1925. 274, 2377.
German constructors remaking Russian Loss of. 273, 2195.
navy, 263, 119.
Sherman, Forrest P.
S-19 (U. S. submarine).
Main battery elevations and fighting
Hilliard, R. B. Salvage of S-19. 270, aircraft. 266, 600.
1408.
Naval aircraft in international law. 274,
Saegmuller, G. N. tr.
2259.
See Bauersfeld, I. W. Great planetarium Seagoing aircraft (Discussion). 263, 103.
of Munich museum. (Illus.) 267, 761.
Ship ventilation.
St. Louis (U. S. S.).
See Ventilation.
McClellan, E. N. Honi Heke's war of Shipbuilding.
1845 in New Zealand. 270, 1459.
Palen, F. P. Protection of American
Salvage operations.
shipbuilding. 270, 1532.
Hilliard, R. B. Salvage of S-19. (Illus.)
Development of German merchant ship-
270, 1408.
building. 270, 1504.
Juggling with a destroyer at Scapa
Launchings of the world's shipyards,
Flow. 273, 2189.
1924. 266, 642.
Refloating the Liberté. 267, 825.
Plight of the industry (1925). 273, 2190.
Saratoga (U. S. aircraft carrier).
Position of industry in England, 1925.
Description. 268, 1073.
270, 1500.
Scammell, J. M.
Shipbuilding in Germany in 1925. 268,
Nation in arms and national doctrine.
1068.
271, 1684.
Shipbuilding record (1925) lowest since
Schumacher, T. L.
war, 271, 1782.
Leviathans of antiquity. (Illus.) 265,
State of British shipbuilding, 1925.
268, 1064.
Schuyler, G. L.
Shipping laws.
Bombing radius as affected by wind.
See Navigation laws.
274, 2242.
Ships.
Discussion on “Excellence of naval Schumacher, T. L. Leviathans of
material." 271, 1740.
antiquity. (Illus.) 265, 446.
Scott, Sir Percy.
Ships' telegraphs.
Admiral Sir P. Scott and his work. 263, Cory Co. issues new bulletin (1925).
265, 518.
Sea power.
Shock, T. M.
Eberle, E. W. Elements of sea power Discussion of "Possible improvements
and the future of the navy, 272, 1832. in our gunnery training." 274, 2338.
Stirling, Yates. Some fundamentals of Simonds, Frank H.
sea power. 268, 889.
British see war in far East. 266, 678.
446.
113.


  p. 2448 (#1412)                      

2448
[Dec
Index to Volume 51
Simpson, B. W.
Standley, W. H.
Bombing accuracy. 273, 2197.
Discussion of "Aviation in coast de
Singapore.
fense." 271, 1741.
Russell, Sir H. Value of Hongkong Stars, identification of.
(and Singapore). 269, 1251.
Burkhead, L. H., and Benson, W. H.
Churchill and Singapore base. 263, 111. Star identification of. 271, 1667.
Future of Singapore. 264, 288.
Littlehales, G. W. Star identification
Singapore and naval strategy. 268, diagram, discussion of. 271, 1723.
1058.
Statistics, naval.
Singapore question up again (1925).
See Navies; also subhead, “Navy" under
265, 463.
names of countries.
Small, R. W.
Steel.
Navy's effort to take Hawaii to be
Non-corrosive steel for turbine blades.
gigantic affair. 266, 633.
263, 138.
Smith, Alfred Gilbert.
Stern tubes.
Need for revision of our navigation
laws. 267, 834.
Reduction of friction in stern tubes.
Smith, Roy C.
269, 1285.
Discussion on “Promotion of officer
Stirling, Yates.
Bridge across the Atlantic. 271, 1669.
personnel.” 265, 454.
Line personnel situation at the present
See also correction 273, 2173.
time (1925). 268, 934.
Review of Green's Our naval heritage.
Smith, R. R.
273, 2218.
Engineering economy on auxiliary ves-
Some fundamentals of sea power. 268,
sels. 273, 2101.
889.
Snow, Elliot.
Strategy.
Army industrial college. 270, 1469. Frost, H. H. National strategy. 270,
Snyder, H. R.
1343.
If I were to do my service over again. Pye, W. S. Joint army and navy opera-
263, 59.
tions.
Some fundamentals of sea power.
Pt. 1—262, 1963
Yates Stirling. 268, 889.
Pt. 2-263. 1
Somers (U. S. brig.).
Pt. 3—264, 233
Hunt, Livingston. Attempted meeting
Pt. 4–265, 386
on the U. Š. brig Somers. (Illus.) 273,
Pt. 5—266, 589
2062.
Pt. 6—268, 975
Spalato, Dalmatia. .
Styer, C. W., jt. author.
Field, R. S. Spalato, 1919. (Illus.) 267, See Weber, G. K. and Styer, C. W.
Submarine boats.
View of city. 267, 707.
Baker, W. D. Submarine capabilities
Special Naval Board for Aircraft.
and limitations. 270, 1398
Extracts from report, 1925. 267, 856. French mine-laying submarine. 272,
Speed of ships.
1980.
Mendenhall, W. K. Retardation of
German submarine design (1925). 265,
ship's speed due to turning. 271, 1719
488.
Spencer, Philip.
Hunt, Livingston. Attempted meeting
Large French submarine for convoy
on the U.S. brig Somers. (Illus.) 273,
duty. 263, 119.
2062.
Submarine cruisers (1925). 271, 1792.
Spies.
Submersible cruisers, 1925. 266, 614.
The employment of spies. 266, 618. Supercharging.
Stack, Sir Lee.
See Internal combustion engines.
Egypt pays indemnity for murder of Supply ships.
Sir L. Stack. 264, 344.
Lang, R. G. The supply ship. (Illus.)
Stability of ships.
264, 268.
Stability standards. 274, 2396.
Staff, general.
Surveys.
See General staff.
Venezuela coast to be charted. 263, 148.
Standing One.
Syria.
Weber, G. K. and Styer, C. W. 273, Difficulties of France in Syria, 1925.
2110.
274, 2409.
775.


  p. 2449 (#1413)                      

25]
2449
Index to Volume 51
645.
Trend of naval affairs.
cna-Arica dispute.
R. E. Krause. 266, 521.
Coolidge's award final. 268, 1095. Trial trips of vessels.
Coolidge submits arbitration decision. Donald, H. G. Operation of a destroyer
267, 881.
at full power. 263, 15.
gawa, Daikichiro.
Trident Literary Society
America, let's reason together. 274, Special notice. 265, 453.
2365.
Tripp, Gary E.
ttnall, Josiah.
Manufacturer on "preparedness.” 267,
Tyler, W. C. “Blood is thicker than 831.
water." 263, 91.
Trotsky, Leon.
Copy of report on "Blood-is-thicker Dropped from Soviet War Council.
than-water" episode (Pei-ho river, 265, 512.
1859). 269, 1243.
True wind solver.
ussig, J. K.
Gilmer, F. H. Device for solving for
Balanced feet for U. S. Navy. 269, true wind. 274, 2286.
1107.
Turbines.
Discussion of "Service-since-graduation 200 horse power from 20-1b. turbine.
vs. Age-in-grade retirement." 269, (Illus.) 264, 323.
1238.
Turbine gland sealing system. 264, 325.
Length of service vs. age in grade retire Wearing of turbine blades. (Illus.) 266,
ment. 268, 919.
ylor, D. W.
Turning, retardation due to.
Review of Bodilly, Interaction between Mendenhall, W. K. Retardation of
vessels. 266, 692.
ship's speed due to turning. 271,
eobald, R. A.
1719.
Discussion of “Diesel engines for capital Turrets.
ships.” 271, 1734.
Gautreau, J. B. Quadruple turret in
ornycraft and Co.
cruisers. 266, 626.
Company builds shallow-draft ship for Musser, N. B. Lessons of Jutland
China. (Illus.) 274, 2394.
affecting design of turret armor. 266,
urber, H.R.
562.
Some notes on destroyer handling along Tyler, Hanson R. (Horse.)
side. 269, 1202.
Underwood, E. B. “Lest we forget."
gre (Italian cruiser).
269, 1166.
Photo. 270, 1498.
Tyler, Willard C.
sdale, Mahlon S.
"Blood is thicker than water." 263, 91.
Intelligence tests at U. S. Naval Acad-
U
emy. 264, 202.
inopah (U. S. S.).
Illustration of Tonopah at Spalato. 267,
Underwood, Edmund B.
707.
An international incident (Virginius
rpedoes.
affair). (Illus.) 263, 83.
Steam turbine torpedo. 264, 323.
“Lest we forget.” (“P. J." Miller and
ade.
"Horse" Tyler). 269, 1166.
See subhead, “Commerce," under names
Unemployment.
of countries.
British unemployment situation, 1925.
'aining, fleet.
271, 1755.
See Fleet training.
Unified procurement of government air-
'aining, gunnery.
craft. E. E. Wilson. 272, 1933.
See Gunnery training.
Union Jack Club.
ansportation of troops.
Its aims and achievements. 269, 1255.
Stirling, Yates. Bridge across the | U. S. Aeronautics.
Atlantic. 271, 1669. See also correc-
See Aeronautics, U. S.
tion 273, 2173.
U. S. Army.
reaties.
Snow, Elliot. Army industrial college.
Effect of the 1925 Russo-Jap. pact.
270, 1469.
265, 510.
Commerce
European security agreements signed, Knox, D. W. Sea power and pocket-
1925, at Locarno. 274, 2407.
books. 274, 2231.


  p. 2450 (#1414)                      

2450
[Dec.
Index to Volume 51
U. S. Commerce.--Cont'd
| U. S. Naval Policy.-Contd
U. S. foreign trade, 1924. 269, 1299. Eberle, E. W. Elements of sea power
Water-borne commerce through U. S. and the future of the navy. 272,
ports, 1924. 273, 2208.
1832.
Ferguson, K. B. Situation in the Pacific.
Emergency Fleet Corporation
270, 1551.
See U. S. Shipping Board.
Kieffer, H. M. Control of the seas by
an air department? 274, 2265.
Foreign Relations
Knox, D. W. Sea power and pocket-
Hironori, M. America's Pacific ma books. 274, 2231.
neuvers. 268, 1085.
Krause, R. E. Trend of naval affairs
Wile, F. W. Move to placate Japan. (1925 prize essay). 266, 521.
(1925.) 264, 299.
Livingston, B. Discussion of "Balanced
British note to U. S. on gun elevation. fleet for U.S. Navy." 271, 1744.
264, 330.
Robinson, T. D. Gentlemen, the Navy!
Debt agreement with Poland. 263, 163. 272, 1817.
Japanese see war threat in U. S. fleet Rodgers, W. L. Military preparedness.
maneuver. 264, 297.
272. 1845.
Warning to Mexico, June, 1925. 270, Russell, Sir H. America's naval policy.
1567.
269, 1267.
Russell, Sir H. Pacific zone: British
Marine Corps
view of U. S. naval policy. 270, 1480.
Lejeune, J. A. The U. S. Marine corps. Russell, Sir H. U. S. sea power. 266,
(Illus.) 272, 1858.
624.
Taussig, J. K. Balanced fleet for the
Merchant Marine
U.S. Navy. 269, 1107.
See Merchant marine.
British criticism of American naval
Military Policy
building policy. 264, 284.
Naval propaganda. 266, 622.
Rodgers, W. L. Military preparedness. Secy. Wilbur favors strong naval policy.
272, 1845.
263, 123.
Naval Academy
See also Preparedness.
Baldridge, H. A. Aviation at Naval
Naval Reserve
Academy. (Illus.) 271, 1632.
Akers, G. W. Discussion of “Naval
Eller, E. M. Three craftsmen and the
reserve training." 268, 1024. .
part of the Naval Academy in the
molding of a man. 273, 2049.
Navy
Folk, Winston. Basic education of
officers. 264, 274.
Bywater, H. C. American and Jap.
Tisdale, M. S. Intelligence tests at the
navies compared. 264, 306.
U.S. Naval Academy. 264, 202.
Bywater, H. C. American fleet out.
ranges British. 270, 1517.
Aircraft course urged for Academy.
265, 496.
Koon, S. G. American naval strength,
Flying course added to curriculum. 268,
1924. 263, 120.
1074.
Krause, R. E. Trend of naval affairs
Trident Literary Society. 265, 453. (1925 prize essay). 266, 521.
View of Chapel-night photo. 273, 2049 American naval efficiency in 1925. 265,
466.
Naval History
Last word on 5-5-3 ratio (capital ship
Stirling, Yates. Bridge across the
strength, U. S. and Brit. navies,
Atlantic. 271, 1669. See also correc 1925). 269, 1270.
tion 273, 2173.
Naval Intelligence Office
Navy. Administration.
Chadwick, D. V. Discussion of "Ad-
British aroused by naval secrets re-
vealed in U.S. 265, 462.
ministrative changes." 266, 604.
Dinger, H. C. “Discussion of proposed
Naval Policy
changes in Navy Dept." 270, 1489.
Badger, 0. C. History repeats. (1st || Dinger, H. C. Discussion of "Excellence
hon. mention, 1925). 267, 707.
of naval material." 273, 2167.


  p. 2451 (#1415)                      

1925)
2451
Index to Volume 51
U. S. 'Navy. Administration.--Cont'd | U. S. Navy Promotion and Pay.--Cont'd
DuBose, W. G. Discussion on "Pro Taussig, J. K. Discussion of "Service-
posed administrative changes in Navy since-graduation vs. Age-in-grade re-
Dept." 265, 455.
tirement. 269, 1238.
Fisher, C. W. Discussion of "Excellence Taussig, J. K. Length-of-service vs.
of naval material." 272, 1964.
Age-in-grade retirement. 268, 919.
Fisher, C. W. Proposed administrative
changes in the Navy Dept. 265, 357.
[Navy. Vessels Building
Howard, H. S. Discussion of "Ex-
1924, October. 263, 130
cellence of naval material." 273, 2165.
1925, Feb. 267, 829
Jordan, John N. Discussion on "Change
1925, Sept. 274, 2370.
in organization of Navy Dept.” 271,
Navy Department
1727.
Dinger, H. C. Discussion of “Pro-
McDowell, C. S. Discussion on "Ex posed changes in U. S. Navy Dept."
cellence of naval material.” 272, 270, 1489.
1961.
DuBose, W. G. Discussion on “Pro-
McDowell, C. S. Discussion of “Pro posed administrative changes in Navy
posed changes in Navy Dept." 270, Dept." 265, 455.
1494.
Fisher, C. W. Proposed administrative
Schuyler, G. L. Discussion of "Ex changes in Navy Dept. 265, 357.
cellence of naval material." 271, Jordan, J. N. Discussion on “Organ-
1740.
ization of Navy Dept." 271, 1727.
Shafroth, J. F. Discussion of "Ex-
McDowell, C. S. Discussion of “Pro-
cellence of naval material." 273, posed changes in Navy Dept." 270,
2164.
1494.
Wygant, B. B. Excellence of naval
Navy Yards.
material. 272, 1963.
Williams, Henry. Administration of
Navy. History.
industrial work in navy yards. 270,
Evans, Waldo. Development and 1391.
growth of American navy. (Illus.)
Shipping Board.
272, 1897.
Palmer, L. C. Past and future of Fleet
Navy. Maneuvers.
Corp. 268, 1079.
See Maneuvers.
The Board and Adm. Palmer. 274, 2397.
Commissioner Haney and Adm. Palmer.
Navy. Materiel.
273, 2207.
Wilbur's testimony, 1925, regarding Fleet Corporation and Shipping Board
navy's efficiency. 265, 476.
affairs. 272, 2008.
Wile, F. W. Navy is up to par, Coolidge Ford's bid for scrap ships (1925) recom-
believes. 265, 481.
mended for acceptance. 271, 1790.
Navy. Organization.
Requested by Coolidge to negotiate
sale of ships. 270, 1534.
Wright,'H. J. War staff idea afloat. Scrapping Shipping Board's ships. 271,
274, 2298.
1791.
Navy. Program.
Shipping Board controversy, 1925. 274,
Hundred million dollar program urged
2400.
for U. S. (1925). 264, 316.
Truth from Adm. Palmer. 270, 1531.
Program, 1925. 264, 310.
U. S. Naval Institute.
Navy. Promotion and Pay
Annual financial statement, 1924. 266,
700.
Campbell, E. H. Promotion of officer
personnel. 264, 183.
McCain, J. S. Service since graduation | V-1 (U. S. submarine).
vs. age in grade retirement. 267, 737. Illustration. 264, 283.
Rochester, A. A. A bachelor looks at | Ventilation.
the navy pay bills. 270, 1455.
Charlton, A. M. Ship ventilation in
Smith, R. C. Discussion on “Promotion 1741. 265, 437.
of officer personnel.” 265, 454.
Virginius affair.
Smith, R. Č. Line personnel situation Underwood, E. B. The Virginius affair.
at the present time (1925). 268, 934. || Illus. 263, 83.


  p. 2452 (#1416)                      

2452
[Dec.
İndex to Volume 51
655.
Visible air whistle.
Wilbur, Curtis D.
Description. 265, 486.
Navy day address of Secy. Wilbur,
Vroom, G. B.
1924. 263, 125.
Strategic value of aircraft carrier. Wile, Frederic W.
(Illus.) 263, 78.
Move to placate Japan. (1925). 264,
W
299.
Wainwright, Richard.
Navy up to par, Coolidge believes. 265,
Dacia dilemma. 270, 1452.
481.
Review of Parmalee's Blockade and Washington bombing test report. 266,
Sea Power. 263, 166.
Walton, Duncan C.
Wiley, H. V.
Gas mask and the next war. 269, 1172. Celestial cruise. 266, 604.
War.
Williams, Henry.
Frost, H. H. National strategy. 270,
Administration of industrial work in
1343.
navy yards. 270, 1391.
War staff idea afloat.
Williamstown Institute of Politics.
H. J. Wright. 274, 2298.
Porter, Russell. Leading points of
Warlick, Wm. W.
world disputes. 272, 2023.
Letter regarding lighter-than-air air Peace by cooperation is Institute's
craft carriers. 269, 1241.
message. 272, 2029.
Warner, Edward P.
Report of proceedings of 5th session,
Air policy for U. S. 267, 722.
1925. 272, 2040.
Washington Conference on Limitation of | Willson, Russell.
Armament. Knox, D. W. Another side Direct reading maneuvering diagrams.
of the 5-5-3 argument. 272, 1985.
274, 2276.
The Washington pact and Mr. Shearer, Our system of feet training. 266, 572.
266, 623.
Wilson, E. E.
Will the Washington agreement sur Aircraft engine progress. 266, 657.
vive?-a British view (1925). 265, Discussion of "Independent air force."
459.
267, 807.
Washington (U. S. S.).
Unified procurement of govt. aircraft.
Russell, Sir Herbert. Washington ex-
272, 1933.
periment. 266, 675.
Wile, F. W. Washington bombing test
Gilmer, F. H. Deivce for solving for
report. 266, 655.
true wind. 274, 2286.
American battleship incident. 264, 303. Wing rotors.
Washington tests -report of official Description and illustration. 274, 2390.
board. 266, 636.
Wolf (Ger. aux. cruiser).
See also Shearer, William B.
See Mendl, I. W. V., Corsairs. 268,
Water recovery.
1001.
Uses of water recovery. 271, 1769.
Wood, Albert N.
Wead, F. W.
Home-made planisphere. 271, 1710.
Discussion of “Limitations of aircraft
Wood, Ralph.
in naval warfare." 271, 1745.
Sanity in aviation. 269, 1133.
Weber, G. K., and Styer, C. W.
Worthington Diesel engine.
Standing one. 273, 2110.
30-day test results. 263, 137.
Weems, P. V. H.
Wright, H. J.
Navigator's notebook. 273, 2138. War staff idea afloat. 274, 2298.
Welding, electric.
Wright, W.L.
Stirling, Yates. Bridge across the Vest pocket ballistics. 273, 2138.
Atlantic. Correction, 273, 2173. Wygant, B. B.
Wembly exposition, 1924-25.
Discussion of "Excellence of naval
Air Ministry's exhibits at Wembly. 271, material.” 272, 1963.
1758.
Whaley oil engine.
Description. 273, 2203.
Yangtze patrol.
Wharton, Wallace S.
Wharton, W. S. Our Chinese navy.
Our Chinese navy. 263, 68.
263, 68.
Whistles.
Yokahama.
Visible air whistle. 265, 486.
Scenes after 1923 quake. 268, 889, 963.
Wind.


  p. (#1417)                        #

PUBLICATIONS
U.S. NAVAL INSTITUTE
NAVAL LEADERSHIP
Naval Leadership: with Some Hints to Junior Officers
and Others. 2nd Edition, revised 1925.
Containing some 200 pages of clear type on good paper, in a neat and
durable fabrikoid binding, in a size convenient for the pocket, approxi-
mately 4%x7%8". $1.50 postpaid.
NAVAL ORDNANCE
Naval Ordnance, 1925.
A text book prepared for the use of Midshipmen by Officers of the
United States Naval Academy. Revised and brought up to date.
641 pages, illustrated. $8.00 postpaid.
LAW
International Law for Naval Officers, 1923.
By Comdr. C. C. Soule, U. S. Navy, and Lieut. Comdr. C. McCauley,
U. S. Navy. 148 pages. $2.00 postpaid.
Constitutional Law. Reprinted 1924 with slight additions.
By H. J. Fenton, M.A., LL.D. 351 pages. $2.25 postpaid. This book
is now the text book on the subject at the U. S. Military Academy,
West Point.
NAVIGATION
Navigation, 1922.
By Lieut. Commanders E. A. Lofquist, and A. M. R. Allen, U. S.
Navy. 508 pages, illustrated, $5.65 postpaid.
Navigation and Compass Deviation, 1918.
By Comdr. W. C. P. Muir, U. S. Navy. 765 pages. $4.30 postpaid.
Practical Manual of the Compass, 1921.
By Captain Harris Laning, U. S. Navy, and Lieut. Comdr. H. D.
McGuire, U. S. Navy. 234 pages, illustrated, $3.90 postpaid.
Celo-Navigation, 1924.
By Commander Benjamin Dutton, U. S. Navy. Containing methods
and problems for use of the new method of reckoning time. For use
especially with Navigation, 1922. Suitable for use with any navigation
textbook. Cloth, 69 pages. Price $1.25 postpaid.
(1)


  p. (#1418)                        #

MARINE ENGINEERING
Internal Combustion Engines, 1925.
Their Principles and Applications to Automobile, Aircraft, and
Marine Purposes.
A complete and thorough revision of the 1920 edition by the Depart.
ment of Marine Engineering and Naval Construction, U. S. Navai
Academy.
Obsolete material has been omitted, and much new material has
been added, such as Diesel engines, aircraft engines and naval type-V
engine. 266 pages. $3.00 postpaid.
Naval Reciprocating Engines and Auxiliary Machinery, 1922.
By Commanders J. K. Barton, U. S. Navy, and H. O. Stickney,
U. S. Navy. 634 pages, illustrated, with Atlas containing 48 plates,
$6.50 postpaid.
Marine and Naval Boilers, 1920.
By Lieut. Commanders Frank Lyon, U. S. Navy, and A. W. Hinds,
U. S. Navy. 404 pages, illustrated, $3.80 postpaid.
Naval Turbines, 1924.
By Commanders 0. L. Cox, U. S. Navy, and M. A. Libbey, U. S.
Navy. Prepared primarily for use in the instruction of midshipmen,
the book covers the latest principles involved in turbine design and con-
struction. 251 pages with many illustrations and drawings. Price $5.00
postpaid.
How to Preserve Your Boiler, 1921.
By Captain E. P. Jessop, U. S. Navy. 23 pages. $.30 postpaid.
NAVAL COMMUNICATIONS
Notes on Naval Communications. 2nd Edition, 1924.
Compiled and revised by Lieut. A. C. Kidd, U. S. Navy. The book
contains the latest on communications, and is a necessity for those
studying for promotion. 160 pages. $1.30 postpaid.
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Radio Manual. A New Textbook for Midshipmen.
Prepared for the Department of Electrical Engineering and Physics,
Naval Academy. Contains 18 chapters, and deals with both receiving
and sending. Off the press in July, 1925. Cloth. $3.00 postpaid.
Robison's Manual of Radio Telegraphy and Telephony, 1924.
6th Revised Edition, enlarged and brought up to date.
By Commander S. C. Hooper, U. S. Navy. 906 pages, illustrated.
$8.50 postpaid.
Naval Electrician's Textbook, 1922.
Vol. I. Theoretical, 640 pages, illustrated. $4.80 postpaid. Vol. II.
Practical, 473 pages, illustrated. $3.00 postpaid.
Storage Battery Manual, Including Principles of Storage
Battery Construction and Design, 1920.
By Lieut. Comdr. Lucius C. Dunn, U. S. Navy. 400 pages, illustrated.
$2.00 postpaid, formerly $7.00.


  p. (#1419)                        #

NAVAL CONSTRUCTION
Principles of Naval Architecture and Warship Construction,
1924.
By Lieut. Comdr. G. C. Manning (CC), U. S. Navy, and Lieut.
T. L. Schumacher (CC), U. S. Navy. A treatise especially prepared
to furnish in compact form the information required by the operating
personnel of the U. S. Navy. 368 pages with many illustrations and
drawings. $5.00 postpaid.
Naval Artificer's Manual, 1918.
By Lieut. McCall Pate (CC), U. S. Navy. 797 Pages, illustrated.
$2.00 postpaid.
LANGUAGES
Composition for Naval Officers, 1921.
By Professors W. O. Stevens and C. S. Alden, U.S.N.A. 235 pages.
$1.55 postpaid.
French Nautical Phrase Book and Reader, 1921.
By Professor P. J. des Garennes, U.S.N.A. 182 pages. $1.50 post-
paid.
A Spanish Nautical Phrase Book and Reader.
Reprinted 1925 with additional corrections. By the Department of
Modern Languages, U. S. Naval Academy. 175 pages. $2.00 postpaid.
AVIATION
Naval Aviation, 1925.
A text book primarily for the instruction of midshipmen, but is
valuable to the service at large. Everything of a technical nature has
been purposely excluded. Compiled by Lieut. W. W. Warlick, U. S.
Navy. 128 pages. $1.75 postpaid.
Airplanes, Airships, and Aircraft Engines, 1921.
By Lieut. Albert Tucker (CC), U. S. Navy. 448 pages, illustrated.
$3.50 postpaid.
PHYSICAL TRAINING
Manual of Athletic Requirements, 1922.
By Department of Physical Training, U. S. Naval Academy. 573
pages, illustrated. $3.75 postpaid.
MATHEMATICS
Trigonometry and Stereographic Projections, 1919.
By Professor S. J. Brown, U. S. Navy. 303 pages. $2.75 postpaid.
MISCELLANEOUS
Yankee Mining Squadron, 1920.
By Captain R. R. Belknap, U. S. Navy. 110 pages, illustrated. Price
reduced to $1.00 postpaid.
Routine Book, 1918.
By Captain R. R. Belknap, U. S. Navy. 308 pages. Price reduced
to $1.25 postpaid.
(3)


  p. (#1420)                        #

TRADE
TRADE NAVY STANDARD
MARK
BITUMINOUS COAL
Mined at Ebensburg No. 1 Mine
Annual Capacity One Million Tons
Producers
COLEMAN & CO., Inc.
PHILADELPHIA
Bankers Trust Building
NEW YORK
25 Broadway

The Advantages of FRICK
Refrigerating Machines
have put 4300 of them into successful opera-
tion.
The simple valve arrangement makes it easy
to start. It is dependable in operation, because
every feature making for long life, efficiency,
quietness, and flexibility has been built into it.
Write for illustrated booklet & quotations
FRICK COMPANY INC.
WAYNESBORO, PA.
Switchboards, Etc.
Built to Order
* LONG ISLAND CITY
NEW YORK
ELECTRIC

QRY PRODUC
ODUCTS
SPERRY
The Largest Milling
Organization in the West
Mills in California, Oregon, Washington, Utah
Daily Capacity, 27,000 Barrels; Elevator Capacity, 18,000,000 Bushels
SPERRY FLOUR CO. SAN FRANCISCO
CDCDDV DLOUD Ca
Head Office
JOHN E. LINGO & SON, Manufacturers and Erectors
TUBULAR STEEL FLAG POLES Wood Flag Poles STEEL MASTS
Coopers Point, CAMDEN, N. J.
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(4)


  p. (#1421)                        #


Monel metal and Nickel
literature sent on request.
Physical Properties
of Monel Metal
VOLUME
NUMBER
Metal Blades in Destroyer Turbines
How Material Costs Affect Pump Economy
MONEL METAL and
NICKEL LITERATURE
and address filed in bo
Check literatare desired cm
DESCEUTIVE
NIELSEN SURVEYS
TECHNICAL
.
INCO MAGAZINE
Dereted is the latest of
Jesu
EW LITERATURE
IN
TEMS
The International Nickel Co.
67 Wall Street, New York City, N. Y.
Please send me, at the address given below, your "List B”
of Monel Metal and Nickel literature. I understand that
I am to check this list according to literature desired.
Name
Ship or Station.............
Address Via.......
N. I. P.
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(5)


  p. (#1422)                        #

LOVE NEST
The Best Eating Candy Bar in the
World for a Nickel
THE EUCLID CANDY CO.
Factories
New York Cleveland San Francisco
CRESCENT REFRACTORIES COMPANY
FIRE CLAY BRICK AND DUST
HIGH TEMPERATURE CEMENT
CURWENSVILLE, PENNA.
INDIANA CONDENSED MILK CO.
COLSPRING BRAND EVAPORATED MILK
Main Office Box 895
INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA
THE whole personnel
of this Company is standing
by to be of assistance to
the United States Navy111
to render service and to
furnish petroleum products.
STANDARD OIL COMPANY
(California)
Mention the Naval Institute It Identifier You


  p. (#1423)                        #


U. S. Navy Department
SEATTLE
TACOMA
AT
SO
PORTLAND
110
CUB)
COMP
CAN
Lubricating Oils
Sustained Item No. NAME
Quality 1-Avon Ice
Marine
Machine "B"
Lubricants
2-Avon Turbine
Oil Light "C
3-Avon Turbine
Oil Medium "C"
4-Avon Turbine
THESE cities form a service
Oil Heavy "C"
chain for Associated
-Avon Turbine
Practical Marine Lubrication
Oil Extra Heavy "C"
Service on the Pacific Coast.
6-Avon Turbine
From Canada to Mexico,
Oil Ultra Heavy "C"
Avon Marine Lubricantsand
other Associated products
7–Cycol Aero Oil No. 4
are available. There are no
8-Cycol Aero Oil No. 3
long waits for shipments to 9Avon Mardex
arrive and our staff of marine Marine Engine Oil
engineers is always ready to 10—Avon Mineral
help you solve your lubrica-
Marine Engine Oil
tion problems
11-Bryso Marine
Steam Cylinder Oil
A post card addressed 12—Hyso Marine
to our office nearest you
will put this money-sav.
Steam Cylinder Oil
ing service in motion.
HONOLU
ogt
SAN
FRANCISCO
OAKLAND
SANTA CRUZ
MONTEREY
SANTA BARBARA
LOS ANGELES HARBOR
SAN DIEGO
ASSOCIATED OIL COMPANY
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIF.
Your Condenser Problems
DUBILIER engineers can efficiently solve your
condenser problems.
DUBILIER is the pioneer manufacturer of fixed
condensers.
DUBILIER condensers are now used in practi-
cally every governmental radio station and are
meeting the test of time in Super-Power trans-
mitting stations.
Dubilier
CONDENSER AND RADIO CORPORATION
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(7)


  p. (#1424)                        #

NAVAL OFFICERS' UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT
When in Bremerton, Navy Yard, Puget Sound, call on
PAUL MEHNER, Tailor and Importer
Local Representative Officers' Uniform Shop
409 Washington Ave.
Bremerton, Wash,
Phone 3 L
THE OHIO BRUSH COMPANY
Established in the Year 1879. Office and Factory: 3093-97 East 78th St
CLEVELAND, OHIO
Manufacturers of Quality Brushes of All Kinds
BOEING AIRPLANE CO.
Manufacturers of
COMMERCIAL and MILITARY
AIRCRAFT
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON
Satisfies Every Radio Wish
THE MELCO SUPREME RECEIVER
A five tube tuned radio frequency receiver that embodies
every feature demanded by the most discriminating enthu-
siasts for perfect radio reception. The Melco Supreme really
amazes in its performance any time and any place.
If you build your own, Melco Knock-Down Kits are available.
Your dealer will be glad to demonstrate. Ask for our
literature. It's interesting.
AMSCO PRODUCTS CO. FAIRBANKS BLDG. NEW YORK

Window Screen and Storm Sash
HANGERS AND
FASTENERS
Garage Door
BOLTS AND HOLDERS
PHENIX MFG. CO.
018 Center Street
MILWAUKEE, WIS.
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(8)



  p. (#1425)                        #

OXY-ACETYLENE WELDING
AND CUTTING EQUIPMENT
High Pressure Gas Apparatus
TRADE
MARK

Torches for
Welding
Cutting
Brazing
Etc.
Drum Valves for
Oxygen
Acetylene
Carbonic Gas
Etc.
Regulators for
Oxygen
Hydroge:
Acetylena
and All G25.1
Manifolds
Charging
and
Discharging
High Pressure
Fittings
Tees
Elbows
Master Valves
Welding Hccc
All Accessories
Rego No. 962 Oxygen Valve
THE BASTIAN-BLESSING COMPANY
240-258 E. Ontario St., CHICAGO, ILL.
THE BASTIAN-BLESSING COMPANY
MEET OUR MR. LANGUILLE
Who represents us and our can-
dies. He has a line of bars, box
candies, etc., which will appeal
to the navy trade.
IMPERIAL CANDY COMPANY
SEATTLE, U. S. A.
“Visit Us When In Seattle"
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(9)


  p. (#1426)                        #


Kinney Fuel Oil Service Pump
The Pump shown in the
above cut is built in sizes
ranging from 5 to 10
GPM at 300 pounds pres-
sure and from 10 to 60
GPM at 60 pounds pres-
sure. Larger sizes will be
furnished on application,
KINNEY MFG. CO., BOSTON, MASS.
SURGICAL SUPPLIES
manufactured by Bauer & Black are accepted everywhere
as meeting all the requirements as to quality and sterility.
They are dependable, which is the supreme test of all
surgical dressings.
SPECIALTIES
Handy Fold Gauze Picric Acid Gauze
Surgical Lubricant Handy Packer Strips
Zinc Oxide Adhesive Plaster
Moleskin Adhesive Plaster
Dermal & Tension Sutures
Full Line of Sutures and Ligatures
Catgut-Silk-Silkworm Gut
Kangaroo Tendon
Copy of Booklet on Ligatures and Sutures Sent on Request

68 Bauer & Black
MAKERS OF STERILE BURGICAL DRERINGS AND ALUED POOVCTS
CHICACO NEW YORK - TORONTO
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(10)


  p. (#1427)                        #

THE ANNAPOLIS BANKING & TRUST COMPANY
ANNAPOLIS, MD.
Safe Deposit Boxes for Rent
Total Resources-$2,400,000
4% Paid on Savings Accounts—2% Paid on Checking Accounts
Foreign Exchange and Travelers Checks Issued
Since its Foundation this Bank has handled the moneys of the Officers and
Midshipmen of the United States Navy. We invite you to make this Bank
your Business Home throughout your Naval Career
JAMES A. WALTON RIDGELY P. MELVIN F. H. THOMPSON, JR.
President
Vice President and Attorney
Treasurer
Gould Battery
For Every Battery Purpose!
THE GOULD STORAGE BATTERY COMPANY, Inc., 250 Park Ave., N. Y
Laundry Machinery
The American Laundry Machinery Company has
planned and equipped the laundries of many of the
foremost military and naval hospitals in this
country. It maintains a corps of engineers who
specialize in this work.
If you have any questions pertaining to modern
hospital laundry practice, you will find consultation
with these specialists advantageous. This service
is gladly offered without any obligation on your part
whatsoever.
The American Laundry Machinery Company
Norwood Station, Cincinnati, Ohio
The Canadian Laundry Machinery Co., Ltd., 47-93 Sterling Road,
Toronto 3, Ontario, Canada
Agents:
British-American Laundry Machinery Co., Ltd., Underhill Street,
Camden Town, London, N. w. i, England
COSBY PRODUCTS COMPANY
Manufacturers of Cleaning Compound
Marvel Silver Polish
Marvel Metal Polish
Marvel Aluminum Polish
Supreme Metal Polish
549 Fulton Street, CHICAGO, ILL.
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(11)


  p. (#1428)                        #


Thoroughly Dependable
SHELL COMPANY
OF CALIFORNIA
ASCOLOY
STAINLESS
Resists
Rust – Heat – Wear
Allegheny Ä Steel Company
Brackenridge *02 Pennsylvania, U. S. A
THE CARPENTER STEEL COMPANY
READING, PA.
Highest Grade Tool, Alloy and
Non-Corrosive Steels
H. M. SAWYER & SON
EAST CAMBRIDGE, MASS.
Oiled Clothing for Naval Uses
Also Lightweight Colored Coats (Red, Blue and Green)
for Women and Children
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
. (12)


  p. (#1429)                        #

THE DOUGLAS COMPANY
SANTA MONICA, CALIF.
Airplane Development and Production
COMMERCIAL AND MILITARY TYPES
Whatever Your
Question

Be it the pronunciation of vitamin or marquisette or soviet,
the spelling of a puzzling word--the meaning of overhead,
novocaine, etc., this “Supreme Authority"
Webster's New International Dictionary
contains an accurate, final answer. 407,000 words. 2700 pages. 6000 illustra-
tions. Constantly improved and kept up to date. Copyright 1924. Regular
and India Paper Editions. Write for specimen pages, prices, etc. Cross Word
Puzzle workers should be equipped with the New International, for it is used
as the authority by puzzle editors. FREE Pocket Maps if you name Proceedings
of U. S. Naval Institute.
G. & C. MERRIAM COMPANY, Springfield, Mass., U. S. A.
The Farmers National Bank of Annapolis, Md.
GROSS ASSETS
4% INTEREST ON:
$3,167,723.34
SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
STORAGE VAULTS SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES
ESTABLISHED 1805
GEO. W. HARTZELL, Piqua, Ohio
Wholesale Manufacturer of
AMERICAN WALNUT LUMBER AND FANCY VENEERS
We Use the Genuine Old-fashioned Soft Ohio and Indiana Walnut
W. MEADE HOLLADAY
President
CHARLES F. LER
Vice-President
D. J. THOMPSON
Cashier
JOHN M. GREEN
Asst. Cashia
The State Capital Bank of the E. S. T. Co.
Church Circle & Gloucester St., Annapolis, Md.
“Naval Accounts Solicited"
It Identifies You
Mention the Naval Instituto
(13)


  p. (#1430)                        #

Power - Economy . Performance
Insured When Your Motor Is Equipped with the Famous
STROMBERG CARBURETOR
Best for Aeroplanes, Boats, Trucks and Passenger Cars
STROMBERG MOTOR DEVICES COMPANY
68 E. 25th St.
CHICAGO, ILL.
IMPERVIOUS VARNISH CO.
Manufacturers
Electrical Insulating Varnishes
Baking Enamels, Lacquers, Coil and
Special Varnishes
421 Wood Street PITTSBURGH, PA.
New England Coal & Coke Company
MINERS AND SHIPPERS
STEAM and GAS COALS
FROM THE
New River, Pocahontas, Pennsylvania and Fairmont Fields
GENERAL OFFICES
111 Devonshire St.
Boston, Mass.
BRANCH OFFICES
Citizens Bank Bldg.
Cunard Bldg.
Continental Bldg.
Norfolk, Va.
New York, N. Y.
Baltimore, Ma
Standard Steam Pressure Reducing Valves and
Pump Governors for Marine Service
Mason Regulator Co.
Boston, Mass.
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(14)


  p. (#1431)                        #

The Welding Rod of a Thousand Uses
TOBIN BRONZE
WELDING RODS
REG.U.S. PAT. OFF
With the oxy-acetylene process all kinds of iron and
steel parts are welded satisfactorily with Tobin Bronze
at a dull red heat. Dismantling, preheating and re-
assembling are seldom necessary. Supplied by leading
distributors. Manufactured solely by
THE AMERICAN BRASS COMPANY
General Offices: Waterbury, Connecticut
STRATFORD OAKUM
Known as the World's Best
for Nearly a Century
GEORGE STRATFORD OAKUM CO.
Jersey City
New Jersey
VLLULLOWIEDOTOVOLA
Ford Instrument Company, Inc.
Rawson St. and Nelson Ave.
LONG ISLAND CITY, N. Y.
RUODI D'QQIQIY
beebi
GUN FIRE CONTROL APPARATUS,
SCIENTIFIC, MATHEMATICAL AND
CALCULATING INSTRUMENTS
CONSULTING ENGINEERS
W. H. WYATT LUMBER COMPANY
PHILADELPHIA
Specialists in Pacific Coast Products
Cargo and Rail Shipments
ATLANTIC COAST SHIPPERS
ALASKA SHIPPERS
PORT BLAKELY MILL CO.
LUMBER, LOGS AND TIMBERLANDS
FOREIGN AND DO MESTIC CARGOES
6100 Arcade Square
SEATTLE, WASHINGTON
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(15)


  p. (#1432)                        #

New-edition
1926

136 pages
METALLIC
PACKING
DO YOU KNOW
PACKING?
Observations and findings of sci-
entific accuracy covering experi-
ence of many years progressive
work in packing marine and
stationary reciprocating rods,
centrifugal pumps, refrigera-
tion systems, superheat,
plungers, etc. New material
never before published on
stuffing box proportions and
designs. Complete. Reli-
able. A text book. Send
the coupon for complimen-
tary copy.
Name.....
Company
Address.
Crane Packing Company
1821 Cuyler Avenue, 109 Broad Street
Chicago New York
CONSOLCO
(Wawan
SHEET PACKING
WOUD
H. P. SHEET NO. 500 NO. 567 FOR LIQUIDS
A compressed asbestos sheet suit A plant fibre sheet for joints of
able for superheated steam at 300 lubricating and fuel oil also all
pounds pressure and 625 degrees F. gasoline joints.
temperature and for H. P. joints of Wisoid contains no rubber or as-
internal combustion engines.
bestos and is not affected by action
Furnished in thicknesses of 1/64 of gasoline, oils, greases.
to 44" in sheets of various sizes.
Is recommended for all liquid
Consolco can be furnished in gas conditions under 300° F. tempera-
ket formall shapes and sizes.
ture.
Manufacturers of High Grade Packings for All Conditions
CONSOLIDATED PACKING AND SUPPLY CO., 21 Barclay St., New York

POWER, ELECTRICAL and
INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY
[LECTRICAL Machinery, Steam Engines, Steam Tur.
L bines, Condensers, Gas Engines, Oil Engines, Hydraulic
Turbines, Pumping Engines, Centrifugal Pumps, Mining
Machinery, Metallurgical Machinery, Crushing M
COMPLETE POWER Cement Machinery, Flour Mill Machinery, Saw Mill Machin.
UNITS WITH ANY ery, Air Compressors, Air Brakes, Steam and Electric Hoists,
TYPE OF
Farm Tractors, Power Transmission Machinery, Perforated
PRIME MOVER
Metals, Timber Preserving Machinery.
ALLIS-CHALMERS MANUFACTURING CO.
MILWAUKEE, WIS. U.S.A.
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(16)


  p. (#1433)                        #


Metallic Packing
FOR
All Conditions
SAN
OF
Marine Service
Send for Catalogue and List of Users
FRANCE PACKING COMPANY
6506 TACONY ST., PHILADELPHIA, PA.
GYRO-PILOTS GYRO SHIP STABILIZERS GYRO-COMPASSES
NAVIGATIONAL INSTRUMENTS
GUN FIRE CONTROL APPARATUS
NAVAL, MILITARY AND COMMERCIAL SEARCHLIGHTS
NAVIGATION PRINSTRUMENTS***.com
THE SPERRY GYROSCOPE COMPANY
LONDON
NEW YORK
TOKYO
15 Victoria Street Manhattan Bridge Plaza, B
Mitsui Building
SPERRY
FOR BETTER NAVIGATION
:
JINDICATING|
mperature (IND
instruments
RECORDING
JCONTROLLING
The Line is Complete
Write
For Catalogs
Taylor Instrument Companies
ROCHESTER, N. Y., U. S. A.
CANADIAN PLANT
TYCOS BUILDING, TORONTO
There is a Tycos or Taylor Temperature Instrument for Every Purpose
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(17)


  p. (#1434)                        #

Refrigerators should be

white outside as well as
inside. An aid to clean-
liness and sanitation.
White porcelain enamel
fused on steel will hold
its immaculate color for
years—will not craze or
peel.
The famous Bohn Syphon
Refrigerator is now made
only in white porcelain both
inside and outside. All
standard sizes. At prices
little more than the old
fashioned wood box.
Send for Catalogue.
BOHN REFRIGERATOR COMPANY
ST. PAUL, MINNESOTA

Marine Refrigeration
York CO, Refrigerating Machines
are specially designed to meet every
refrigerating requirement in the
Navy and Marine Service,
They are built in sizes ranging from
14-ton refrigerating capacity up-
wards, and can be driven by any
available power.
YORK MANUFACTURING CO.
Ice Making and Refrigerating
Machinery Exclusively
YORK
PENNA.
WHITMER-PARSONS PULP & LUMBER COMPANY
Manufacturers
SPRUCE - HARDWOODS - HEMLOCK
OFFICE: 1411 Finance Bldg., Philadelphia, Pa.
MILLS: Horton, W. Va.; Ravensford, N. C.; (Sunburst, N. C.)
AMERICAN TWIST DRILL & TOOL COMPANY
MANUFACTURERS OF
FORGED HIGH SPEED DRILLS OF QUALITY
DETROIT, MICH.
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(18)


  p. (#1435)                        #


SEMPER
PARATU
16th Infantry
Enright,
Gresham and Hay!
Every soldier, from buck to "wax works,” clenched his
ist more determinedly as he thrilled at the news of the
glorious death of these men—the first of the American
Army to be casualties in the World War.
At 10 P. M., on the night of November 3rd, in '17, in
Barthlemont, the 2nd Battalion of the 16th Infantry
-elieved the French on a hill jutting out from the Rhine-
Marne Canal. At about 3 A. M., the Boche opened up
vith their artillery and machine guns, the official German
velcome to the American soldiers. While the box bar-
age isolated one platoon in a bit of trench the Germans
eaped over the parapet and came to grips with the
lefenders. The Americans were inexperienced in the
actics of trench raids, but they fought like demons with
ists and rifle butts in this mêlée of death.
The trench was held and the Germans driven off, but in
ts muddy bottom lay three men, America's first dead
n the cause of human freedom. These men were
Corporal James B. Gresham, Private Thomas F. En-
Fight, and Private Merle D. Hay, all of Company F,
16th Infantry
E. I. DU PONT DE NEMOURS & CO., Inc.
Wilmington, Delaware
Du Pont Powder
has been insep-
arably connected
with the combat
history of every
organization in
the service. In
1802, practically
all du Pont Pow-
der was made for
military purposes.
Today, 98% is
produced for in-
dustrial uses.
QU POND
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(19)


  p. (#1436)                        #


Fuel is injected into
the cylinders in a min-
utely atomized form by
the aid of high-pressure
air. Ignition is caused
solely by the heat of
air compressed in the
cylinders prior to fuel
injection,
Conversion to oil engine
drive at minimum cost
THE Bethlehem Oil Engine Bethlehem Oil Engine can be
simplifies the conversion installed without changing the
of steamships to oil engine stern construction and without
power and minimizes the cost. enlarging the propeller shaft.
It is the unusual compactness of The oil engine can be placed in
the Bethlehem Oil Engine that the machinery space formerly
makes its installation so rela occupied by the steam engines
tively simple. This American and boilers.
designed engine is of the two-
cycle type, combining maximum Bethlehem engineers will wel-
power with minimum weight and come an opportunity to explain
space occupied.
the advantages of the Bethlehem
Oil Engine to any interested
In the majority of vessels, the shipowner.
BETHLEHEM SHIPBUILDING CORPORATION, LTD., BETHLEHEM, PA.
General Sales Offices: 25 Broadwav. New York City


BETHLEHEM
OIL ENGINE Lange Unit
Large Unit
Type -.
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(20)


  p. (#1437)                        #


C-30242:7
1500 S.H.P., 90 R.P.M. Engine for Standard Oil Co. (N.J.)
DISTINCTIVE FEATURES,
Cylinder head is symmetrical through any section with only
one opening through the center;
Scavenging and charging air enters cylinder through a double
row of wall ports, the upper row being controlled by auto-
matic valves, thus eliminating cylinder head scavenging
valves;
Exhaust is blown out of cylinder through wall ports, avoiding
exhaust valves;
Reversing is accomplished by swinging the cam rollers—one
set of rollers for running forward and one set for running
astern—without shifting the camshaft.
Busch-Sulzer Bros. -Diesel Engine Co.
ST. LOUIS, MO.
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(21)


  p. (#1438)                        #

MORE ADVENTURES OF
BURGESS
RADIO BATTERIES
The same Burgess Radio
'A', 'B' and 'C' Batteries
which are today faith.
fully serving the nation's
armed forces on land and
sea and in the air, and
used by leading radio
broadcasting stations,
experienced radio engi-
neers and amateurs, are
sold in your own com-
munity by your own
dealer for your own re-
ceiving set.
When you replace your
old batteries, ask your
dealer for Burgess. In-
sist upon this brand of
laboratory products-
you will receive the same
measure of satisfactory
service that has won the
confidence of the radio
public.
"ASK ANY RADIO ENGINEER"
BURGESS BATTERY COMPANY
Engineers DRY BATTERIES Manufacturers
Flashlight - Radio · Ignition · Telephone
General Sales Office: Harris Trust
Bldg., Chicago
Laboratories and Works: Madison, Wis.
In Canada : Niagara Falls and Winnipeg

The US Navy Uses
USE SASIO BRES

BURGESSU
"A"
BATTERY
OURCES
BATTERY
CU TUBES
RADIO
SERVICE
US
BURGESS
BATTERY
Mention the Naval Institute-It Identifies You
(22)


  p. (#1439)                        #

ADMIRAL PORTER
was the First President
U. S. Naval Institute
Over 60% of Retired Flag Officers
Retain Their Membership
Why Are
80% of the Rear Admirals
70% of the Captains
60% of the Commanders
57% of the Lieutenant-Commanders
46% of the Lieutenants
on the Active List Today Members?
TO THE YOUNGER OFFICERS:
The above figures are significant in that
they mean that officers as they reach the
top of their profession have found it in-
creasingly necessary to keep abreast of the
current of progress.
Yearly cost of Membership (including
Proceedings) $3.00
Address:
SECRETARY-TREASURER
U. S. NAVAL INSTITUTE
Annapolis, Md.


  p. (#1440)                        #

U. S. NAVAL INSTITUTE
PROCEEDINGS


  p. (#1441)                        #



  p. (#1442)                        #



  p. (#1443)                        #




  p. (#1444)                        #




  p. (#1445)                        #


BOUND
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
OCT 131926
JNIV. OF MICHI
LIBRARY
3 9015 07709 5761


#blankp. (#1446)                        #


